Switzerland is home to seemingly endless natural beauty as well as a rich cultural history, ensuring there’s something to discover that will astound you. Read our list of the 20 must-visit attractions that you simply have to see for yourself.

Lake Geneva
One of the largest lakes in Western Europe, Lake Geneva has plenty to keep you enthralled. From Geneva on the western shores to the town of Montreux on the east, you’re treated to views of the Alps reflecting of the lake’s calm waters. In the summer, you can indulge in a number of water sports.


The Lion of Lucerne
In 1792, members of the Swiss Guard were massacred during the French Revolution. A couple of decades later, Lukas Ahorn carved the tragic Lion in its death throes into a rock face outside of Lucerne. The relief was designed by Danish sculptor Bertel Thorvaldsen.


Great St. Bernard Pass
The Great St. Bernard Pass is the oldest pass in the Western Alps and the third highest in Switzerland. At the highest point in the road is the Great St. Bernard Hospice, where St. Bernard rescue dogs gained their fame.


Old Town of Bern
On a wander through the exquisitely preserved old town of Bern, you can feel the city’s history close in around you as you come across 15th-century arcades and 16th-century Renaissance fountains.


Rhaetian Railway
The Rhaetian Railway connects Switzerland to Italy through the mountains of Graubünden and is a remarkable feat of engineering through one of the country’s most photogenic regions. On the 130km ride, you’ll pass over 196 bridges and go through 55 tunnels, with the curving Landwasser viaduct being a spectacular highlight.


Lavaux Vineyards
Vineyards stretch as far as the eyes can see in Switzerland’s longest vineyard region (843 hectares to be precise). On a leisurely hike along the vineyard trail, you can stop by and taste some of the local produce for yourself. Just remember you have to walk back.


Trümmelbach Falls
The Lauterbrunen valley, also known as the valley of the 72 falls is home to the Trümmelbach Falls, the largest series of subterranean waterfalls in Europe. They carry the meltwater from the Jungfrau down to the valley below and they are fully accessible by lift, tunnels and paths.

Bahnhofstrasse
One of the most beautiful and expensive shopping streets in Europe, the Bahnhofstrasse is a must visit on any trip to Zurich. Whether you are in the market for designer goods or just want the experience, make sure to take a wander through.

Gruyères
Gruyères is the cheese capital of Switzerland and the world famous cheese for fondue, aptly named Les Gruyères, is made there. Even if you’re not a fan of cheese, you should still visit as the town’s cream and meringue dessert is a must-taste.
Château Chillon
Situated on a tiny island on Lake Geneva, Château Chillon is the most beautiful castle in Switzerland, offering stunning views of the surrounding Alps.


Jungfraujoch
Otherwise known as the Roof of Europe, here you can admire the Alps in all their splendour. You can journey to Europe’s highest-altitude railway station at 3454m above sea level.

Matterhorn
The Matterhorn is known as the world’s most photographed mountain in the world for a reason. Head to the fully pedestrianized resort of Zermatt if you want to tackle the challenge of climbing the mountain or ski on top-class slopes in its shadow.

Schilthorn
Keeping on the trend of things at high altitude, at the Schilthorn summit you can dine out at just under 3000 metres in a revolving restaurant. From the viewpoint, it’s possible to see the Jungfrau, the Jura mountain range, the Vosges Mountains and catch a glimpse of the Mont Blanc in the distance.


Aletsch glacier
The Aletsch glacier is the largest in the Alps at 23 km long. You can take a trek and get right up close to one of nature’s most spectacular bulldozers.

Kapellbrücke
The oldest covered wooden bridge in Europe stretches across Lake Lucerne, with its structure dating back to the 14th century. Much of the bridge is a modern reconstruction after it was destroyed by a fire in the 90s. The interior of the Kapellbrücke contains artwork from the 17th century depicting important events in Swiss history.

The Kapellbrücke is particularly beautiful in the early morning or evening | © Kurt Stocker / Flickr
Rhine Falls
At 125 metres wide and 25 metres high, the spectacular cascading waters of the Rhine Falls is the largest plains waterfall in Europe.

The Rhine Falls is found on the High Rhine between the cantons of Schaffhausen and Zürich | © kuhnmi / Flickr
Jet d’eau
As one local Swiss comedian said, the Genevois are so proud of their tiny part of Lac Léman, or Lake Geneva, they decided to fire it hundreds of feet into the air. The Jet d’eau is one of the unmissable, if rather puzzling, sites of Geneva.

© qiv/ Flickr
The Abbey of St Gall
This UNESCO World Heritage Site contains one of the oldest medieval libraries in the world and was one of the most important abbeys in Europe from the 8th century to the 19th. The structure we see today is the result of eight centuries of restructuring.

The Abbey of St Gall | © Dguendel / WikiCommons
Lake Lugano
By Lake Lugano, with its Mediterranean climate, palm trees and the sound of Italian being spoken, you could easily forget that you are in Switzerland. Surrounded by mountains and blessed with fine weather, it makes for the perfect place for a relaxing getaway.

Lake Lugano | © IMBiblio/ Flickr
The castles of Bellinzona
The Castelgrande, Castello Montebello and Castello Sasso Corbaro protected the city of the Bellinzona, the capital of the canton of Ticino. Each castle is worth a visit by its own right, but together with their defensive walls they offer a fascinatingly beautiful step back in time.


Switzerland is expensive. That's old news.
Wherever you go and whatever you buy, you'll find yourself spending a lot more than you would anywhere else. Unless you're travelling in Bermuda or Norway.
But for a budget traveller, our high prices can be a real turn-off. Which is a shame because Switzerland is a fantastic place to visit.
I mean, would you say no to this?



Yeah, me neither. So let's not get caught up in this downward spiral and focus on some positives instead, shall we? Because if you think about it, even this annoying aspect comes with its plus side.
It makes anything free seem like an absolute steal.
Think about it...
Finding a free museum in Switzerland is a heaps more exciting than in one of those super budget-friendly countries like Poland or Croatia. And the best game plan to protect your budget is to hunt down as many free activities as possible.
Which is exactly what this post is going to help you with. Are you ready to find out what they are?
(Spoiler alert. Some of the following 25 suggestions are probably not what you expected. Free biscuits, anyone?)
Table of contents
1. Culinary
2. Transport
3. Culture
4. Nature
5. Animals
1. Culinary
1.1 Go cookie-crazy at the Kambly factory store
If you like free biscuits and beautiful landscapes, the Kambly factory store in the idyllic village of Trubschachen will feel like Christmas and Easter all at once. With up to 100 types of delicious biscuits to freely devour, this place will keep you busy for a while.
And full...
Or sick. Depending on how far you take it. And I have yet to meet someone who didn't take it too far.
For an in-depth rundown of the Kambly store adventure, visit this article.

Eat free biscuits at the Kambly factory store...

... and buy a bag or two for your trip.
1.2 Refill your water bottle
Switzerland is also known as "the water castle of Europe", which makes buying bottled water completely redundant. Drinking water is all over the place and opportunities to refill your bottle are endless.
Zurich alone has 1.200 public fountains and Lucerne even created a water guide to help you find your closest refilling station. Unless you see a sign telling you otherwise ("kein Trinkwasser", "eau non potable" or "aqua non potabile"), you're good to go.
Opinions on drinking from mountain streams are divided, though. I personally avoid it whenever I can...
1.3 Say cheese
Oh boy, Swiss cheese. Don't get me started...
Nothing I've ever tasted abroad came even close to what we have here. Swiss cheese is just the best. I occasionally get called a cheese snob for saying that during my travels, but I'll take it. 
The coolest part about having 450 different types of cheese is visiting one of the many cheese dairies.
Here's a list of places that let you enter for free. Mind you, some of them charge a little extra for the tasting at the end or to see a special section of their dairy. But for a general impression of the Swiss cheese-making procedure, you don't have to pay for the following vendors:
	•	Cheese dairy in St-Imier
	•	Cheese dairy in Engelberg
	•	Cheese dairy in Einsiedeln
	•	Cheese dairy in Airolo
	•	Emmental cheese dairy in Affoltern
	•	Cheese dairy in Marbach
	•	Cheese dairy in Glis

There are over 450 types of cheese in Switzerland.

Some cheese dairies let you watch their working process.
Oh, and if you happen to turn into a cheese snob after your trip to Switzerland, please let me know. One can never have too many allies...
2. Transport
2.1 Use free public transport
Public transport in Switzerland isn't cheap. But luckily, several Swiss cities offer free use of public transport to their visitors.
Upon check-in at your accommodation in Bern, Basel, Lucerne, Lausanne, Montreux, Geneva and the whole Canton of Ticino, you receive a ticket that lets you use local transport for free during the time of your stay.
More and more cities seem to be adopting this concept, so check with your accommodation if they offer some sort of a tourist card upon arrival.

The Ticino Ticket takes you to Lavertezzo in the Verzasca valley for free...

Just like the Montreux Riviera Card lets you freely use local public transport in Montreux.
2.2 Grab a free bike
In some cities, you can borrow free bikes through a platform called Schweizrollt. All you need to do is leave a deposit and/or some sort of identification and off you go.
The cities currently participating in Schweizrollt are Zurich, Geneva, La Chaux-de-Fonds, Le Locle, Neuchâtel and the Canton of Valais. You can also grab a free bike in St. Gallen by heading to the train station and following the signs to the "Velostation".
If you're looking to rent a bike elsewhere, your alternative options are Nextbike, Publibike, Velospot and SBB. Those aren't free, though.
3. Culture
3.1 Tag along on a free walking tour
The concept of free walking tours has become hugely popular over the past couple of years. You can find them anywhere from La Paz to Paris and Tokyo all the way down to Sydney.
It's an idea that has taken off globally and still continues to grow. And here's how this works.
A highly motivated, talkative and usually local guide takes you around a city for a couple of hours. This makes for tons of local knowledge, random facts and interesting stories.
Since those tours operate on tips alone, you basically join for free and decide at the end how much it was worth to you.
If you felt like it sucked, you can just sneak off. But they almost always go above and beyond to entertain and inform you so leaving a decent tip is kind of a no-brainer.
As of May 2019, free walking tours exist in thirteen Swiss cities. To find one that suits your taste and schedule, head over to the official Freewalk website.

Free walking tours exist in Zurich...

... Bern and many other Swiss cities.
3.2 Peek around our churches
Switzerland has a wide array of impressive churches and cathedrals to show off. To my knowledge, they're all free to enter. (If you happen to find one that takes an entrance fee, I'd like to apologise in advance.)
Certain churches, like for example St. Ursus Cathedral in Solothurn, Grossmünster in Zurich, Laurenzenkirche in St. Gallen or Basler Münster in Basel, give you the opportunity to climb the tower for a small fee.
Don't miss this if you're after postcard and Instagram-worthy views of the city and its surroundings.

Cathedral in St. Gallen

St. Ursus Cathedral in Solothurn
3.3 Take a good look at the city model in Zurich
If you're into architecture and city planning, you're going to love the city model in Zurich. This wooden replica of Switzerland's biggest city shows over 50.000 existing buildings as well as the city's major planned projects.
You can find the city model in the basement of the Department of City Planning, which is situated at Lindenhofstrasse 19 in Zurich.
By the way, it's not uncommon to burst into a meeting here as this room also serves as a conference room. But as long as you keep your voice down and don't interrupt any important discussions, you can still take a look at the model.

The city model of Zurich in the Department of City Planning
3.4 Join a free tour of the Swiss Parliament Building
Understanding the Swiss political system can be as difficult as nailing jelly to a tree.
I could drift off into open waters here and start explaining our direct democracy and how our Head of State consists of seven people instead of just one person.
But I won't.
Instead, if you're interested in all those political questions and our Parliament Building, you can join one of their free Parliament tours. To reserve your spot, use this booking form.

The Swiss Parliament Building regularly runs free tours.

Don't miss this if you're interested in Swiss politics.
3.5 Visit a free museum
With over 1.100 museums scattered across the country, anyone should be able to find something to their taste here. 
And the best part is that roughly a third of our museums are free.
Not the big ones like Technorama in Winterthur or the Museum of Communication in Bern. But CERN in Geneva and the Nature Museum in Solothurn, for instance, are free to enter.
Unfortunately, I couldn't find a conclusive list in English, but I did find something helpful in German.
It's a list of all the Swiss museums. If you visit this website, scroll down to "5. Alle Schweizer Museen" and sort them by price, the free ones will appear at the top.
By the way, if you're travelling with a Swiss Travel Pass, you automatically own the Swiss Museum Pass as well. This gives you free entrance to all the places listed here. (Spoiler alert: Certain chocolate factories also count as museums and are included in this pass)


Find the perfect itinerary
for your trip to Switzerland...
3.6 Slow down
Travelling can be exhausting when you power through a ridiculously crammed itinerary.
And while it may seem reasonable to tick off as many places as possible, this can cause us (yes, this happens to me, too) to miss what's right in front of us. All the free stuff that's almost too obvious to notice.
So next time you find yourself racing from museum to monument to must-do activity, spending way too much money in the process, slow down.
Take a couple of hours getting lost in a city. Stroll through its little alleyways, check out its churches and shops or find a cosy spot by the lake or river.

The Mannenweier in St. Gallen is the perfect place for swimming and enjoying some down-time.

As is the Aaremüürli, the stonewall by the Aare River in Solothurn.
3.7 Party at a free festival
Free festivals, parties and markets take place all year round.
Be that a street food festival, a local party like "Märetfescht" in Solothurn or "em Beppi si Jazz" in Basel, a buskers festival, the yearly madness during carnival, one of the countless fun fairs, open-air festivals or concerts or whatever else your heart desires.
The best place to find out what's happening in your area is the Swiss Events app. It maintains an up-to-date list with everything that's going on in Switzerland.
3.8 Explore our mighty castles
Castles might not be the main attraction you were expecting to find in Switzerland, right?
But you'd be surprised at how many awesome castles we have. Like for instance Chateau de Chillon by Lake Geneva, Gruyères Castle in the Canton of Fribourg or Lenzburg Castle in the Canton of Aargau. Just to name a few.
Unfortunately, most of them aren't free to enter. But since castles are just as impressive from the outside as they are from the inside, you can still enjoy them for free without going in.
To find the most beautiful ones, visit the Swiss castle website.
PS: If you're travelling with a Swiss Travel Pass, several castles are included in your free Swiss Museum Pass.

Chateau de Chillon near Montreux is one of my favourites.

Aarburg Castle is a juvenile prison. Who'd have thought?
4. Nature
4.1 Take a stroll through our botanical gardens
Botanical gardens are nearly as abundant in Switzerland as museums.
Almost every city and every university offering a plant-related study programme has a publicly available garden with indigenous and foreign plants.
To find a botanical garden in your area, use the search form on the the official Swiss Tourism website.
4.2 Stand in the mist of Europe's largest waterfall
The Rhine Falls near Schaffhausen are one spectacular force of nature.
During summer, around 600.000 litres of water plummet down this 150 metres wide (492 feet) and 23 metres tall (75 feet) waterfall.
Access from the northern shore is free while viewing Europe's largest waterfall from the south costs 5 CHF. This fee includes the viewing platforms as well as the entrance to Laufen Castle, which also serves as a Youth Hostel, right above the Rhine Falls.

The Rhine Falls near Schaffhausen are Europe's largest waterfalls.
4.3 Wander through the Lavaux vineyards
The Lavaux vineyards are the perfect place for wine and/or nature lovers.
Stretching all the way from Lausanne to Montreux, this UNESCO World Heritage Site is one of my favourite spots in western Switzerland. And completely free to access if you don't stop for a glass of wine along the way.
Not only is it super peaceful to get lost in those little pathways winding through the vineyards, the spectacular views over Lake Geneva and into the Swiss and French Alps are also unparallelled.
The easiest way to reach the vineyards is by local train from either Montreux or Lausanne. Get off in Epesses, Villette or anywhere else along the way and make your way uphill. Or follow the directions on this website. 

The Lavaux vineyards by Lake Geneva are a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

It's the perfect place to take a stroll through the vineyards and go on a boat ride on Lake Geneva.
4.4 Dip your toes - pretty much anywhere
As you know from earlier, Switzerland is the water castle of Europe. With roughly 1.500 lakes scattered across the country, you're never too far from an opportunity to go for a swim.
Cute little ponds, freezing cold mountain lakes, refreshing rivers and our bigger lakes attract water lovers all year round for all sorts of activities.
Unless you see a sign telling you otherwise, you're good to hop in. Just be careful when you go for a swim in a river. Those currents don't always do what you expect them to.
By the way, my favourite mountain lakes are Seealpsee in the Alpstein mountain range, Oeschinensee in the Canton of Bern and Riffelsee right in front of the Matterhorn in Zermatt.

The River Aare has some amazing spots to go for a swim.

Seealpsee is one of my favourite mountain lakes.
4.5 Hike until your feet fall off
With the Alps making up a whopping two-thirds of Switzerland's land mass, your hiking opportunities over here are endless.
If you summed up all the official hiking trails across Switzerland, you'd end up with roughly 65.000 kilometres (40.400 miles) worth of trails. Put into perspective, that's one and a half times the world's circumference.
Or 18.5 times the Appalachian Trail. As you can see, hiking is a free activity that can technically keep you busy for years. 
To plan your hike, use the Schweizmobil website or download their app.

Hiking in the Alpstein mountain range

Hiking to Creux du Van in the Canton of Jura.
4.6 Walk across the world's longest pedestrian suspension bridge
An incredibly head spinning adventure is hiking across the world’s longest pedestrian suspension bridge near Zermatt. 
This masterpiece of a bridge opened in 2017 and stretches 494 metres (1.620 feet) across the valley. The circular track leading across the bridge starts and finishes in Randa, which can be reached in 15 minutes by train from Zermatt.

The suspension bridge in Randa near Zermatt is the world's longest of its kind.
4.7 Visit the Swiss National Park
Most national parks in the world make you pay to enter. But guess what. The Swiss don't.
Founded in 1914, the Swiss National Park in the Canton of Grisons is the oldest national park in the Alps. It offers 80 kilometres (50 miles) of hiking trails that take you through breathtaking landscapes.
The park is also home to various native animals such as marmots, ibex, deer, chamois, jackdaws and many more.
Getting to the main entrance in Zernez is a bit of a mission but not really a problem with the Swiss public transport system.

The Swiss National Park is a hikers' paradise.

And it's free to access, too...
4.8 Go stargazing
In case you've never seen the Milky Way galaxy before, or you just like stars in general, you're in luck. Find a remote spot with little light pollution, look up and wait for those shooting stars to roll in.
Another option is to bring your tent and spend the night outside. Like I mentioned in this post, wild camping is legal in Switzerland. Or at least not illegal...
5. Animals
5.1 Spend some quality time with the bears
Figuratively speaking, of course.
If you happen to visit Switzerland's capital, make sure you stop by the bear park, which lies at the lower end of the old town of Bern. Unless you're there during hibernation time, you'll be able to observe Björk, Finn, Ursina and Berna go about their daily bear's lives.

The bear park in Bern lies at the lover end of the old town, right by the River Aare.

It's only a short walk from there up to Rosengarten, a beautiful garden overlooking the Swiss capital.
5.2 Hang out at a free wildlife park
Several wildlife parks across Switzerland are free to enter and make for a great afternoon trip. Here's a collection of beautiful parks that also teach you a fact or two about the Swiss wildlife.
	•	Wildpark Roggenhausen in Aarau
	•	Tierpark Lange Erlen in Basel
	•	Tierpark in Biel
	•	Alpine Park in Interlaken
	•	Tierpark in Langenthal
	•	Peter & Paul in St. Gallen
	•	Wildpark Bruderhaus in Winterthur
	•	Wildnispark in Zurich
	•	Wildpark Heitern in Zofingen

The marmot, or "Murmeli" as we call it, lives at Peter & Paul Wildlife Park in St. Gallen. And in the National Park, of course.
5.3 Stop by the retired horses of Le Roselet
Tucked away in a village called Les Breuleux in the Canton of Jura, the horse foundation Le Roselet runs a nursing station for retired horses.
Close to 60 elderly horses, ponies and donkeys have found their retirement home here and can be visited all year round.
If heading all the way to Les Breuleux to check out some horses seems a bit out of scale for you, you can always combine the visit with a hike in the Jura mountain range. Trails can be found and planned through Schweizmobil.
5.4 Observe the storks in Switzerland's largest stork station
The stork station in Altreu was brought to life in 1950 when storks in Switzerland were almost extinct. Max Bloesch, a committed sports teacher, worked on bringing the storks back to Switzerland and eventually, his endeavours paid off.
Today, over 40 breeding pairs enjoy their summers soaring through the air, strutting across the fields and clattering on the rooftops in Altreu.
If you're in the Solothurn area, don't miss out on a couple of relaxing hours in this charming spot next to the River Aare.

Altreu is a beautiful place by the River Aare.

It's home to over 40 stork breeding pairs. Can't miss 'em.
Zip that wallet
And this completes our hunt for free things to do in Switzerland. As you can see, there's plenty of stuff to do around here that doesn't require you to open your wallet.
I'm sure this list isn't conclusive so if you happen to bump into any additional free activities you'd like to share, please let us know in the comments below.

35 fun things to do in Switzerland
Our guide to the best things to do in Switzerland that will make you happy.
By Time Out contributors Posted: Friday May 8 2015
Share
Tweet
Switzerland is officially one of the second happiest countries on the planet, according to the 2016 World Happiness Report, a survey which reveals the global ranking of happiness in 158 nations. So just what is making everyone so happy in Switzerland? Here's our list to just some of the unique sights, stunning scenery, great things to do, fun events and special experiences that might have a little something to do with why everyone is feeling the love.
Have we missed out your favourite happy place in Switzerland? What makes you happy in your Swiss city? Tell us what you think in the comments box below or tweet us at @TimeOutSwiss or leave a comment on our Facebook page.


1. Pedalos • Zurich
Things to do Kreis 2

Don't just stand there on the promenade admiring the lake, get out and enjoy it. 
Read more

2. E-bike hire • Basel
Things to do Basel

Switzerland's popular e-bikes or pedelecs have a bit of extra va-va-voom. 
Read more

©Lamatrek Jungfrauregion
3. Trekking with Llamas
Things to do Walks and tours Jungfrau-Region

Enhance your hiking experience with the unusual additional of a Llama to your hiking party, who also acts as a mobile storage unit. From half-day excursions to tours lasting several days, the trek offers fun and adventure for all ages. 
Read more

© Christof Schuerpf
4. Boat trip • Lausanne-Ouchy
Things to do Ouchy

Making the most of its position on one of Europe’s largest lakes, Lausanne’s ferry port at Ouchy offers cruises to many destinations around the lake in Switzerland. Enjoy the ride down to Montreux, or float further afield to Geneva and the medieval French village of Yvoire, a tourist’s favourite. 
Read more

©Switzerland Tourism
5. Contra Dam bungee jump
Things to do Sport events Tenero-Contra

Go bungee jumping off the 220 metre tall Contra Dam in Ticino, as seen in the Bond film GoldenEye. 
Read more

6. Le Deck • Puidoux-Chexbres
4 out of 5 stars
 Bars and pubs Lavaux-Oron 





Tucked within the steeply raked Lavaux vineyards between Lausanne and Montreux, Le Deck enjoys an impossibly scenic position overlooking Lake Geneva and the mountains on the French side opposite.
Read review

©Switzerland Tourism
7. SolarBob
Things to do Walks and tours

Fun and ecology – what’s not to like? This no-snow-required bobsled in leafy Langenbruck outside Basel incorporates one kilometre of hair-raising slide, a 540-degree helter-skelter – and a solar-powered lift to carry visitors back to the top. 
Read more

8. Bains des Pâquis • Geneva
Things to do Pâquis 





In summer it’s a lovely place to swim, lounge about in the sun and have a cheapish lunch on the large terrace of the Buvette.
Read more

9. Seebad Enge • Zurich
Things to do Enge

On-site swim coaches, yoga classes, ving-tsun, SUP and relaxation techniques plus a beautician and a sauna which is open all year round - you get it all at Badi Enge. 
Read more

10. Thun-Bern float trip
Things to do Espace Mittelland (Jura & Three Lakes, Bernese Oberland)

As a way to spend a hot summer’s day, drifting on the current down the River Aare with the sun on your face and water to cool off in is hard to beat. 
Read more
Recommended
	•	
	•	The best restaurants in Switzerland with outdoor spaces for winter
	•	
	•	Bars with the best view
	•	
	•	The top things to do this winter in Switzerland
	•	
	•	The best things to do in Switzerland this autumn

11. PubliBike station • Lausanne
Things to do Ouchy

Ouchy sports one of the many PubliBike hire points in Switzerland which allow you to rent a low-cost bicycle and drop it off at any other ‘velostation’ in the country. Though you’re unlikely to go far, it’s a cheap and accessible scheme that’s ideal for short hops along the Swiss Riviera.
Read more

El Mojito
12. El Mojito • Lugano
Bars and pubs Lugano

A throbbing summertime cocktail bar-cum-beach shack on a lakeside jetty. Admire the view or the beautiful people, or both.
Read more

13. Free bike hire • Zurich
Things to do Walks and tours City

Leave a CHF 20 deposit at one of the Züri rollt containers and enjoy the city on two wheels. You might want to cycle down part of either side of the lake or just use the bike to get around Zurich a bit quicker. 
Read more

©Post Auto
14. Morcote Route
Travel Public transport Lugano

Discover Lugano's architectural masterpieces and beautiful scenery with this bus ride through Switzerland's Ticino region. 
Read more

15. Gurten • Bern
Things to do Bern

At 858m, the Gurten sports fabulous views over Bern on a clear day, and makes for a welcome getaway from the city. 
Read more

16. Freestyle Academy • Laax
Sport and fitness

With a large 1,00sq m of space, this indoor freestyle base allows you to hone your skills in snowboarding, freeskiing, skating, climbing, freerunning and biking whatever the weather. 
Read more

© Olivier Miche
17. Jet d’eau • Geneva
Things to do Rive Droite / Right Bank

Don’t fight it: as possibly the most recognisable image of Geneva (you can even see it from the plane), it’s practically the law to get your photo taken in front of the city’s giant water fountain. 
Read more

18. Bellerive Plage • Lausanne
Things to do Ouchy 





The place to hang out in summer, this 1930s outdoor leisure centre is eternally popular when the sun comes out. 
Read more

19. Marchés folkloriques • Vevey
Things to do Event spaces Vevey

Featuring traditional crafts, alphorn players and dancers, artisan produce and – best of all – copious wine tasting stalls set up by local winegrowers, a visit to the folk market is a real experience. 
Read more

BlueWaterCom.ch
20. Thermalbad & Spa • Zurich
Things to do Enge

The view over the city from its rooftop pool is simply amazing, and that alone would almost be worth the entrance. 
Read more

21. Aare outdoor baths • Bern
Things to do Bern

The outdoor baths at Marzili, in the shadow of the grand parliament building, are among the oldest in the country, and free to use. 
Read more

Rimini
22. Rimini • Zurich
Bars and pubs Kreis 1

When it comes to a pool-party venue, Rimini is a bar that excels in chilled-backed atmosphere. 
Read more

© Zuerich Tourismus
23. Flussbad Oberer Letten • Zurich
Things to do Industriequartier

Lounge around on the wooden panels of the right bank, play a game of beach volley or enjoy a glass of Spritz from the container bar.
Read more

Tropical Geneva
24. Paddleboard • Lake Geneva
Things to do Geneva

Hawaii's current craze for stand-up paddleboarding comes to Lake Geneva. The idea is to stand upright on a long surfboard and use a paddle to propel yourself across the water. It's a fun way to travel, as long as you're prepared to fall in once in a while, and a good upper-body workout. There are plenty of other watersports, such as windsurfing and wakeboarding, on the lake. Book lessons at Tropical Geneva and reward yourself afterwards with a drink on the palm-fringed beach, a more secluded location than the main yacht-crammed marina.
Read more

hotel-paladina-tessin.ch
25. Castles • Bellinzona
Things to do Bellinzona

Among the most famous monuments of Ticino are the impressive collection of medieval castles at Bellinzona, the capital of the canton, just north of Lugano. 
Read more

Avalon Waterways
26. Rhine river cruises • Basel
Travel Public transport Basel

The mighty Rhine river is the heart of Basel, so why not enjoy a cruise as you glide along the picturesque Swiss scenery and treat yourself to some onboard entertainment. 
Read more

© Meinrad Schade
27. Zoo • Zurich
Things to do Fluntern

Don’t miss the zoo’s newest attraction – the elephant park with its modern outside spaces and large indoor area. The on-site Thai food stall serves delicious snacks while you watch the elephants.
Read more

© MARCUS GYGER
28. Wildnispark • Zurich
Things to do Zurich

This park less than half an hour away from the city of Zurich consists of two parts: the Sihlwald forest and Langenberg, Switzerland’s oldest wildlife park. 
Read more

29. Dolder sports • Zurich
Things to do Ice skating Fluntern

During the summer season, the public pool and mini golf are a popular attraction for families. 
Read more

© Roland Gerth
30. Lac de Joux • Jura
Things to do Jura

The huge Lac de Joux in the Jura valley of the same name is a draw for outdoor enthusiasts at any time of year. In summer it’s a magnet for swimmers, sailors and windsurfers.
Read more

© La Réserve Eden au Lac
31. Sky Bar • Zurich
Bars and pubs Seefeld 





It goes without saying: a grande dame on the Zurich hotel scene, Eden au Lac has created the swishest of the swish rooftop bars.
Read more

© Restaurant Seerose
32. Restaurant Seerose • Zurich
Restaurants Seafood Wollishofen 





Seerose is Zurich’s answer to Saint Tropez. Suspended above Lake Zurich, its wooden terrace complete with pristine white lounge furniture mimics the deck of a luxurious yacht. 
Read more

© Patrick Nouhailler
33. Bateau Lavoir • Geneva
4 out of 5 stars
 Bars and pubs Café bars Rive Gauche / Left Bank 





A lovely spot to go for a drink, a light lunch or an apéro as the sun goes down. 
Read review

© Christof Schuerpf
34. Limmat-Schifffahrt Boat Trip • Zurich
Things to do Walks and tours Wollishofen

The flat boats with their panoramic glass roofs offer a different view of the city - from the bottom up. 
Read more

35. Walliser Alpentherme & Spa • Leukerbad
Health and beauty Spas Leukerbad

Located in the village centre, its outdoor pool has a gorgeous view of the mountains, making it easy to while away a few hours in the 36-40 degree water or on the deck chairs around the edge. 

15 Top-Rated Tourist Attractions in Switzerland
Written by Karen Hastings and Diana Bocco
Sep 9, 2019

For ravishing alpine scenery and quaint villages oozing storybook charm, it's hard to beat Switzerland. The soaring snow-capped peaks of the Alps, glittering blue lakes, emerald valleys, glaciers, and picturesque lakeside hamlets imbue this landlocked nation with a fairytale beauty. Snuggled amid the mountain valleys and lakes lie world-class international resorts and a long list of things to do, including hiking, biking, climbing, paragliding, skiing, and tobogganing.

Travelers come here for jaw-dropping scenery but are charmed by the many cultural attractions. Steeped in history, cities such as Zurich, Geneva, and Lausanne offer excellent museums and galleries, historic buildings, and renowned music festivals. The capital is Bern with a stunning medieval old town hugging the crook of a river. Germany, Italy, Austria, and France border Switzerland, and their languages and customs infuse this country with a multicultural sophistication.

From the Italian architecture of palm-studded Ticino to the dialects of Swiss-German and Latin-derived Romansch, Switzerland can sometimes feel like several countries in one—yet all with the slick packaging and punctuality for which it is famous.

Plan your trip and explore the best sites with our list of the top tourist attractions in Switzerland.

1. The Matterhorn

The Matterhorn
The Matterhorn, Switzerland's iconic pointed peak is one of the highest mountains in the Alps. On the border with Italy, this legendary peak rises to 4,478 meters, and its four steep faces lie in the direction of the compass points. The first summiting in 1865 ended tragically when four climbers fell to their death during the descent. Today, thousands of experienced climbers come here each summer.

At the foot of this mighty peak, lies the charming village of Zermatt, a top international resort with horse-drawn carriage rides, quaint chalets, and world-class restaurants and hotels. To preserve the air quality and peaceful ambiance, motorized vehicles are banned in the village.

In the winter, skiers can schuss down more than 300 kilometers of slopes. In the summer, swimming and tennis are popular pursuits as well as hiking, biking, and climbing in the surrounding mountains. Summer glacier skiing is also available.

Accommodation: Where to Stay in Zermatt: Best Areas & Hotels

Read More:
Top Tourist Attractions in Zermatt & Easy Day Trips
2. Jungfraujoch: The Top of Europe

Jungfraujoch: The Top of Europe
One of the most popular things to do in the beautiful Bernese Oberland is the train journey to Jungfraujoch, the "Top of Europe," with an observation terrace and scientific observatory perched at 3,454 meters. The longest glacier in Europe, the Great Aletsch Glacier begins at Jungfraujoch, and is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The famous Eiger Trail from the Eiger glacier station to Alpiglen clings to the rocks at the foot of the north face.

Other popular walks include Panorama Way to the sunny, south-facing First slope; the Gletscherschlucht (Glacier Gorge); and Öpfelchüechliwäg, the high-altitude trail from Holenstein to Brandegg through fields of flowers, alpine pastures, and woodlands. The less active can ride gondolas and cable cars to scenic viewpoints over the Lauterbrunnen Valley.

Picturesque Grindelwald is a glacier village in the Jungfrau region, which makes a great base for adventures into the surrounding mountains. It nestles at the base of snow-cloaked mountains and is one of Switzerland's oldest and most popular resorts. Towering above this alpine valley is the tiara-shaped Wetterhorn and the sheer north face of the Eiger, one of the planet's most dramatic and difficult climbs. Between the mountains lie Grindelwald's two glinting glaciers. For the best views, Faulhorn, at 2,681 meters, offers breathtaking panoramas of the giant peaks.

Accommodation: Where to Stay in the Jungrau Region

Jungfruajoch - Section map
Jungfruajoch Map
3. Interlaken

Interlaken
Nestled between Lake Thun to the west and Lake Brienz to the east, Interlaken is one of Switzerland's most popular summer holiday resorts. In the center of town, Höhematte is a marvel of urban planning with 35 acres of open space. Flower gardens, hotels, and cafés surround the Höheweg, the main boulevard through here with breathtaking vistas of the mountains. The mighty peaks of the Eiger, Mönch, and Jungfrau tower above the town providing excellent opportunities for alpine adventures. Hiking, climbing, abseiling, and kayaking are prime pursuits.

More than 45 mountain railways, cable cars, chairlifts, and ski lifts transport visitors into the surrounding countryside and offer plenty of chances for sightseeing from up above. In the winter, skiers and snowboarders can take their pick from the surrounding resorts and cross-country ski along the extensive trail network. In the summer, paragliders launch from Beatenberg-Niederhorn. To admire the scenery from lower elevations, hop aboard a paddle steamer for a cruise around the lakes.

Accommodation: Where to Stay in Interlaken

Read More:
Top Tourist Attractions in Interlaken & Easy Day Trips
4. Lucerne

Lucerne
Imagine a sparkling blue lake surrounded by mountains, a car-free medieval old town, covered bridges, waterfront promenades, frescoed historic buildings, and sun-splashed plazas with bubbling fountains. No wonder Lucerne (in German, Luzern) is a top spot for tourists. Famed for its music concerts, this quintessential Swiss town lures renowned soloists, conductors, and orchestras to its annual International Music Festival. The Culture and Convention Center is home to one of the world's leading concert halls.

One of the city's most famous landmarks is the Chapel Bridge, built in the 14th century. In a small park, lies the famous Lion Monument, a poignant sculpture of a dying lion, which honors the heroic death of Swiss Guards during the attack on the Tuileries in the French Revolution. History buffs will enjoy the Swiss Transport Museum with extensive exhibits on all forms of transport, including air and space travel, railroad locomotives, and a Planetarium.

For beautiful views of Lucerne, the Alps, and the lake, ride the funicular to the Dietschiberg on the north side of Lake Lucerne; cruise up Mt. Pilatus on the cableway; or head to the Rigi, a famous lookout point.

Accommodation: Where to Stay in Lucerne: Best Areas & Hotels

Read More:
Top-Rated Tourist Attractions in Lucerne
5. Lake Geneva

Lake Geneva
Lake Geneva, Europe's largest Alpine lake, straddles the Swiss/French border, and laps at the shores of some of Switzerland's most popular cities. The city of Geneva (in French Genève; in German Genf) sits between pretty snow-capped peaks at the point where the Rhône spills into Lake Geneva.

This French-speaking "capital of peace" is the European seat of the United Nations and exudes a pleasing blend of French joie de vivre and Swiss structure. Promenades, parks, and gardens surround the lake, and the old town is a lovely spot to stroll among the historic buildings. The Jet d'Eau, a fountain in Lake Geneva shooting water 150 meters into the air, is a famous landmark. Cultural attractions include the Opera House and the Grand Théâtre, which stages international acts.

Also on the lake, about 62 kilometers from Geneva, Lausanne boasts lovely views over the surrounding region and the lake, with the Alps rising in the distance. Take a stroll through the medieval old town with its cute cafés and boutiques and stunning Gothic cathedral. At the foot of the Alps, on Lake Geneva, Montreux hosts the world-famous Montreux Jazz Festival in June/July.

Accommodation: Where to Stay in Geneva: Best Areas & Hotels

Read More:
Top-Rated Tourist Attractions in Geneva
6. Chateau de Chillon, Montreux

Chateau de Chillon, Montreux
On the shores of Lake Geneva, near Montreux, the Chateau de Chillon (Chillon Castle) has inspired artists and writers for centuries. Lord Byron, Jean Jacques Rousseau, and Victor Hugo are among the luminaries who have written about this architectural treasure.

Once the stronghold of the Counts and Dukes of Savoy from the 12th century, the complex encompasses about 25 buildings clustered around three courtyards. Highlights include the Great Halls, with magnificent views of Lake Geneva; the Gothic underground rooms; the Chapel, adorned with 14th-century paintings; and the Camera Domini, a bedroom occupied by the Duke of Savoy decorated with medieval murals.

Accommodation: Where to Stay in Montreux

7. St. Moritz

St. Moritz
Mirror-like lakes, glaciers, jagged peaks, alpine forests, and oodles of sunshine make St. Moritz one of the world's top mountain destinations and a must-have on your list of things to do in Switzerland. Palatial hotels and pricey restaurants are par for the course at this chic resort town, which has hosted two winter Olympics.

Sitting in an alpine valley 1,800 meters above sea level, the town is divided into two parts: St. Moritz Dorf sits on a sunny terrace overlooking the Lake of St. Moritz. The other part of town, lakeside St. Moritz Bad on the valley floor, is a health resort with less expensive lodging. Winter sports run the gamut, from skiing, snowboarding, skating, and bobsledding to tobogganing on the famous 1.2-kilometer-long Cresta Run.

In the summer, hiking, biking, and water sports abound. Glacier skiing is also available in the summer. Adding to all this spectacular mountain scenery, St. Moritz is a cultural crossroads. Romansch, German, Italian, French, and English are all spoken in the surrounding areas—not to mention the different languages of the many well-heeled international visitors and expats.

Accommodation: Where to Stay in St. Moritz

Read More:
Top Tourist Attractions in St. Moritz & Easy Day Trips
8. Bern

Bern
In a stunning location, perched on a peninsula of the River Aare, the Swiss capital of Bern exudes old world charm, and the city's medieval old town is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Strolling along the cobbled streets, visitors can explore the tallest cathedral in Switzerland, with panoramic views from its tower; 16th-century fountains; the Zytglogge medieval clock tower with moving puppets; and six kilometers of shopping arcades, called "Lauben" by the locals. The Rose Garden (Rosengarten) offers beautiful views of the old town center.

Bern has many tourist attractions waiting to be discovered, including many excellent museums. Art lovers will appreciate the impressive galleries, including the Zentrum Paul Klee, the world's largest collection of works by this famous artist, and the Bern Museum of Art (Kunstmuseum). Don't miss the markets, held in the Bundesplatz (parliament square) with views of the elegant Renaissance-style parliament building (Bundeshaus). Families will also enjoy a visit to the Bear Park.

Accommodation: Where to Stay in Bern

Read More:
Top Tourist Attractions in Bern & Easy Day Trips
9. Lake Lugano and Ticino

Lake Lugano and Ticino
Lake Lugano lies on the Swiss/Italian border in Ticino, Switzerland's only official Italian-speaking canton, and offers a tantalizing taste of the Mediterranean. Citrus, figs, palms, and pomegranates flourish in the mild climate here—even as snow-capped peaks beckon in the distance. In the towns around Lake Lugano and Lake Maggiore to the west, the feel of Italy is unmistakable in the architecture, the piazzas, and the passion for fine food, which spills over the Italian borders from the south, east, and west.

Visitors can explore the area by touring the lake on one of the white steamers or renting a boat. For a panoramic overview, Monte San Salvatore offers one of the most spectacular vistas of the surrounding countryside, lake, and snow-capped peaks.

Lugano, a financial center and the largest and most significant town in Ticino, is a popular summer resort. Northwest of Lugano, in sun-drenched Locarno on Lake Maggiore, Swiss lakeside living takes on a subtropical touch with warm days, blossoming gardens, and palm-studded estates. In Bellinzona, capital of the canton, three magnificent castles are UNESCO World Heritage sites.

Accommodation: Where to Stay in Lugano

Read More:
Top-Rated Tourist Attractions in Lugano, Locarno, and the Ticino Region
10. Zurich

Zurich
Zurich is Switzerland's largest city, a major transportation hub, and a top starting point for travelers. The city lies at the northwestern end of Lake Zurich astride the river Limmat. Beyond its buttoned-up façade, this affluent banking capital boasts a rich line-up of cultural treasures.

A great place to begin a walking tour is the cobbled streets of the Old Town with its quaint shops, cafés, and galleries. Mile-long Bahnhofstrasse, one of Europe's finest shopping strands, beckons with designer stores selling fashion, watches, and jewelry.

Venturing away from the boutiques, visitors will find more than 50 museums and 100 art galleries, as well as many other tourist attractions. A top pick is the Kunsthaus Zürich, the museum of fine arts, with an impressive collection of art from the Middle Ages to the present day. Another favorite is the Rietberg Museum, focusing on non-European art with many works from China, India, and Africa.

A short stroll from Zürich's main station, the Swiss National Museum, in a Gothic chateau, spotlights Swiss cultural history. Families will love the Zurich Zoo with an elephant park, penguin parade, and Madagascar pavilion. From the city, take a train ride to Uetliberg Mountain for panoramic views of the city and countryside.

Accommodation: Where to Stay in Zurich: Best Areas & Hotels

Read More:
Top-Rated Tourist Attractions in Zürich
11. The Rhine Falls

The Rhine Falls
Spanning 150 meters, the Rhine Falls (Rheinfall) at Schaffhausen are the largest falls in Central Europe. The best time to visit is during June and July when the mountain snow melts, and the falls swell in volume to spill over a 21-meter-high ledge of Jurassic limestone.

Boat trips up the Rhine provide excellent views of the falls, as do the viewing platforms on both sides of the river.

Accommodation: Where to Stay in Schaffhausen

12. Swiss National Park

Hiking trail in the Swiss National Park
Founded in 1914, Swiss National Park in the Engadine Valley is the oldest reserve in the Alps. The park sits right on the border with Italy and encompasses more than 170 square kilometers of flower-dotted hollows, fast-flowing rivers, and limestone crags. The scenery is especially dramatic in winter, when the forested mountains are covered in a blanket of snow, and the views from the cross-country ski trails are stunning.

Nature-lovers can explore the region on the large network of trails, though veering off these paths is forbidden in an effort to preserve the natural ecosystems. More than 5,000 species of wildlife call the park home, including marmot, red deer, chamois, ibex, fox, and more than 100 species of birds.

Accommodation: Where to Stay in the Swiss Alps

Swiss National Park - Layout map
Swiss National Park Map
13. The Albula/Bernina Railway Line

The Bernina Railway line
One of the very few railway lines in the world designated as a UNESCO World Cultural Heritage listing, the Albula/Bernina line on the Rheatian Railways offers a majestic ride not to be missed. The route extends throughout the Albula and Bernina landscapes, covering 122 kilometers and winding through almost 200 bridges, the Graubünden mountains, and a number of tunnels and viaducts along the way.

A ride on this train means panoramic seats that overlook unspoiled mountain landscapes, including the Piz Bernina, the highest mountain in the Eastern Alps at just over 4,000 meters tall. The train operates all year long, and the views are just as magical in summer as they are in winter.

14. Oberhofen Castle

Oberhofen Castle
Right on the shore of Lake Thun and surrounded by a 2.5-hectare park, this 13th-century castle is one of the most breathtaking in Switzerland. Because Oberhofen Castle changed hands many times through the centuries, and new owners kept adding rooms to it, the result is a magical mix of many styles: Bernese Baroque-style buildings, Romantic style facades, and Prussian-inspired exotic new areas (including a library and a smoking room).

The castle also houses a living museum showcasing the times and lives of feudal societies that called the castle (and its surroundings) home from the 16th to the 19th centuries.

15. Swiss Grand Canyon

View over the Ruinaulta (Swiss Grand Canyon)
The Ruinaulta (also known as the "Swiss Grand Canyon") is a deep gorge surrounded by expansive meadows and forested cliffs. Located in Eastern Switzerland, it was created over 10,000 years ago—when the Ice Age Rhine Glacier retreated, it led to a chain of events that resulted in a massive rockslide in the Rhine Valley. As the Rhine river seeped through the rock walls, the gorge was filled with water.

Today, the Swiss Grand Canyon is not only one of the most beautiful areas in Switzerland, but also a preferred destination for hikers, bird-watchers, and nature lovers. It's possible to raft the rapids here between May and October, or rent a canoe or kayak for a gentler route with stunning views of the steep cliffs all around.

12 Ultimate Things to Do in Switzerland
Discover the best of Switzerland | © Felix_Broennimann / Pixabay
Discover the best of Switzerland | © Felix_Broennimann / Pixabay
Photo of Sean Mowbray
Sean Mowbray
22 May 2019

Add to Plan
Planning a trip to Switzerland but not sure what to do or where to go? We’ve got you covered with our ultimate guide to the top 12 things to do and beautiful places to visit in Switzerland.

Ski in the shadow of the Matterhorn
At the ski resort of Zermatt, you can wind your way down top-class slopes with excellent views of the iconic, tooth-shaped Matterhorn. For those not wanting to take to the snow, there are other ways to admire the Matterhorn. By heading to the summit of the Rothorn, a short 30 minute cable car journey away from Zermatt, you’ll be treated to a spectacular panorama of the surrounding mountains.


© dsopfe / Pixabay
Deep dive into the local culture
It really is all about the local culture in Switzerland. Its cantons are home to such a wide variety of traditions and festivals that you’ll often feel like you’ve ventured into another country. At Basler Fasnacht, you can join masked pipers and drummers marching through the streets of Basel at the rather anti-social hour of 4am. On Mount Rigi you can partake in some Swiss wrestling, or head to the canton of Valais for the annual Witches Downhill Race. There’s plenty on throughout the year to give you a glimpse into the oddities and eccentricities that Swiss culture has on offer and you’ll probably leave scratching your head in bewilderment.

Relax and enjoy the views on the GoldenPass Line
The GoldenPass Line is the scenic route through Switzerland and it offers the chance to glimpse some of the country’s best scenery. Slow and leisurely at around five and a half hours long, the journey takes you from Lucerne to Montreux (or vice-versa) through six Swiss cantons via three mountain passes (including the Brünig Pass) and landscapes complete with lakes, waterfalls and valleys dotted with typical Swiss chalets. The GoldenPass isn’t direct and you have to switch trains in Interlaken and Zweisimmen. Make sure your camera is fully charged as you’re going to want to snap plenty of pictures.


Start or end your journey across Switzerland in Montreux | © TesaPhotography / Pixabay
Take a train to Jungfraujoch the highest station in Europe
At 3,454 metres above sea level, the Jungfraujoch in the Bernese Oberland is the highest railway station in Europe. Taking a train to the Jungfraujoch is a sure way to admire the Swiss Alps in all their splendour. Travelling along the Kleine Scheidegg pass, it’s possible to see the dramatic peaks of the Eiger, Jungfrau and Mönch mountains on the way. From the summit at the Jungfraujoch you’ll see the 23 kilometre Great Aletsch glacier, the longest glacier in the Alps, stretching out before you.

Get in touch with nature at the Swiss National Park
The Swiss National Park, the Alps’ oldest national park founded in 1914 is located in the canton of Graubünden in eastern Switzerland. It’s a gateway to nature and covers over 170 square kilometres, with 80 kilometres of hiking trails allowing you to explore to your heart’s content. Ibexes, chamois, marmots, golden eagles and bearded cultures are just some of the permanent residents of the park that can be spotted from the trails. Conservation of the park has been incredibly successful, partly because it is forbidden to leave the trails, a rule that is worth remembering.


Spot ibex at the Swiss National Park | © frederic.jacobs / Flickr
Discover the origins of the universe at CERN
CERN, on the outskirts of Geneva is something not to be missed. It’s not every day that you’ll get to see the Large Hadron Collider, the world’s largest and most powerful particular accelerator that stretches out in a 27 kilometre ring under Swiss and French territory. If the accelerator is on, for obvious reasons, it’s not possible to visit. But the Microcosm, the Globe and the fascinating “Universe of Particles” exhibition are worth visiting to learn about the people behind the LHC and its mind-stretching experiments. If you want to take a guided tour it’s best to book as far in advance as possible, as they can fill up quickly.

Take a hike in the Alps
Hiking in Switzerland is an experience you are likely never to forget. In its small area, Switzerland is packed with so many impressive trails, dramatic mountain peaks and quiet, out-of-the-way valleys to explore. Thanks to clearly signposted pathways and in the ski resort areas, numerous lifts and buses, it’s easy to navigate your way around. If you’re looking to go out and about for longer than a day or two, it’s a good idea to check out the Swiss Alpine Club which runs a series of huts dotted around the country for decent prices. There’s also an app with routes of 32 hikes around the country.


Cows are an ubiquitous feature on hikes in Switzerland | © Christoph Strässler / Flickr
Learn languages
Switzerland’s 26 cantons speak four languages between them. In the west of the country towards Geneva, you can practice your French, or head south to the Mediterranean climes of Ticino to pick up some Italian. Towards the centre, north and east you’ll come across German and Swiss German, which are quite dissimilar. In the canton of Graubünden you’ll hear Romansh spoken regularly. Despite it being the national language of Switzerland, it’s not even in the top ten languages spoken in the country. So if you want to practice your language skills or pick up some new ones, there’s no better place than Switzerland where you can learn four without ever leaving the country.

Go wine tasting in Vaud
It may be better known for its cheese than its wine, but Switzerland is also a top destination to sample some fine wines. You won’t find many of these wines elsewhere, as only a small margin is exported. The perfect time and place to try out Swiss wines is the caves ouvertes in early summer, where you pay a small price for a glass and can taste as much as you like. The canton of Vaud is one of the best places for wine tasting and the Lavaux vineyards in particular, a 12-kilometre stretch of vineyards that are just waiting to be explored. With a great atmosphere, clean mountain air and spectacular scenery all around, it’s an experience not to be missed.

Learn the art of cheese-making in Gruyères
Whether you fancy your cheese melted in a fondue or raclette or want the raw deal, Switzerland’s cheese won’t leave you disappointed. Le Gruyère is arguably the most popular and most famous of the Swiss cheeses. At the medieval town of Gruyères, you can discover the art of cheese-making in La Maison du Gruyère and afterwards try some out for yourself, melted or otherwise. The town’s cobbled streets are also pleasant to explore and to allow yourself to make some room for the traditional meringue and rich Gruyère cream, another speciality of the region.


The main street of Gruyères, perfect for the cheese obsessed | © Sean Mowbray
Taste some of the world’s best Swiss chocolate
Train to become a maître chocolatier in Kilchberg, visit Maison Cailler in Broc, one of the world’s oldest chocolate factories and explore Zurich and learn the story of Lindt chocolate. All of this and more is possible in Switzerland, the home to some of the world’s finest chocolate treats.

Step back in time at the Château Chillon
Switzerland is home to many historic castles, but perhaps no others have such a beautiful setting as the Château Chillon. Perched on a small rocky island, the castle sits atop Lake Geneva with commanding views of the surrounding mountain ranges, like something out of a fairy tale. It’s the most visited historical building in all of Switzerland and you’ll likely spend several hours wandering through its bedrooms, courtyards and dungeons or just admiring the views.
Save

Top 12 Things to Do in Switzerland
Jess Moss Jess Moss | February 16, 2016

Xantana | Dreamstime.com
The birthplace of skiing offers travelers much more than slopes and chalets. From art to food to outdoor adventures, there’s so much to enjoy when you visit this small country. Here’s our advice on what to do when you’re in Switzerland. —Jess Moss


Jess Moss
1 OF 12
Take a Hike on the Zermatt Lake Trail
With thousands of miles of well-marked trails, Switzerland is a mecca for hikers of all abilities. Stroll in the shadow of the iconic Matterhorn on the Zermatt Lake Trail, take in the country’s history on the Swiss Path along Lake Luzern, or spot native animals like the ibex or marmot hiking through Swiss National Park in Graubunden. Switzerland Tourism offers a free iphone app that details 32 of the country’s routes. Tip: walking poles and sturdy hiking boots help prevent twisted ankles and knee injuries from uneven ground.

PLAN YOUR TRIP: Visit Fodor’s Switzerland Guide


Alexander Chaikin / Shutterstock
2 OF 12
Learn Some Languages
Switzerland packs a linguistic punch for a country its size. Travel between four distinct cultural regions without crossing a border and speak French in the west, Italian in the south, German in the northern and central parts of the country, and Romansh in Graubunden, in the east, where there’s an enclave of the traditional language. Most Swiss speak English as well, but greeting people with the appropriate local term—bonjour, boungiorno, or gruezi (Swiss German)—will get you far.

PLAN YOUR TRIP: Visit Fodor’s Switzerland Guide


Jess Moss
3 OF 12
Join a Local Festival Like the Marches Folkloriques
Visitors can easily experience local traditions and national pastimes. Every Saturday from mid-July through August, the Marches Folkloriques in Vevey features Swiss folk music, alphorn performances, crafts, and wine tastings. During the Foire de Martigny in Valais, check out Swiss wrestling, flag or stone hurling, or Hornussen (like golf and baseball in one). Or head to Appenzell on the last Sunday in April to watch the open-air elections in the town square.

PLAN YOUR TRIP: Visit Fodor’s Switzerland Guide


Olgysha | Dreamstime.com
4 OF 12
Retreat to the Quaint Villages of Chateau d’Oex, Wengen, Murren, and Others
If you want to slow down and unwind, ditch the city and head to one of Switzerland’s smaller towns. Chateau d’Oex, a peaceful resort in the Lake Geneva region, is a great base for outdoor or hot air balloon enthusiasts. Wengen and Murren, two villages perched overlooking the Lauterbrunnen Valley offer access to the Bernese Oberland peaks without the crowds of Interlaken. And quiet Gandria, on the shore of Lake Lugano, has winding alleys and Italian flair.

PLAN YOUR TRIP: Visit Fodor’s Switzerland Guide


Jess Moss
5 OF 12
Get to Know the Cows in Gruyeres or Appenzell
Odds are when you travel to Switzerland, you’ll have some sort of interaction with cows—from the production of cheese to hearing the clank of cowbells in the countryside. Get to know the cows on a hike or a dairy farm tour near Chateau D’Oex. Or join the seasonal processions in Gruyeres or Appenzell when cows are led to and from the hills to graze. In fall, Martigny’s cow fights are popular events—cows lock horns but don’t hurt one another.

PLAN YOUR TRIP: Visit Fodor’s Switzerland Guide


Xantana | Dreamstime.com
6 OF 12
Take to Lake Geneva
Switzerland’s mountains hog the spotlight, but the country’s lakes are equally awe-inspiring. Glacial blue waters and shoreline vineyards create great photo ops, and locally sourced fish are a specialty on many menus. Cruise by the cascading Jet d’Eau and imposing Chateau de Chillon on Lake Geneva, ride a historic paddle steamer past the Rutli Meadow and Wilhelm Tell Chapel on Lake Luzern, or cross the border into Italy on Lake Lugano. City slickers in Zurich cool off with a dip in Lake Zurich, and bird watchers flock to Lac Neuchatel.

PLAN YOUR TRIP: Visit Fodor’s Switzerland Guide


Katyenka | Dreamstime.com
7 OF 12
Gorge on Cheese in Fribourg
Just because the Swiss only eat fondue in winter doesn’t mean you can’t indulge year-round. The best is in Fribourg, where Gruyere and Vacherin Fribourgeois cheeses are melted together with white wine, garlic, and kirsch (cherry brandy). Other cheese dishes to try include raclette and alpen magronen (alpine macaroni and cheese). But also be sure to sample local regional varieties such as Sbrinz in Central Switzerland, Emmental in Bern, or Bundner Bergkase in Graubunden.

PLAN YOUR TRIP: Visit Fodor’s Switzerland Guide


Anaglic | Dreamstime.com
8 OF 12
See Contemporary Art in Gruyeres or Basel
Home to some fantastic classical collections, Switzerland is also a top spot for cutting-edge contemporary art. Gruyeres, a medieval village best known for its cheese, is a surprising art hub—stroll around the chateau to see modern works inside a 13th century castle, or pop in the nearby Giger Museum and bar to see alien-like designs by H.R. Giger. In June, Basel hosts the glamorous Art Basel festival; check out the Kunsthalle and Carnival Fountain while you’re here. For serious art buffs, a trip to the spectacular Beyeler Foundation, 20 minutes from Basel, is not to be missed.

PLAN YOUR TRIP: Visit Fodor’s Switzerland Guide


Astra490 | Dreamstime.com
9 OF 12
Sip Local Wines in Lake Geneva, Ticino or Valais
Whether it’s white wine made from Chasselas grapes on the shores of Lake Geneva, Merlot from Ticino, or Pinot Noir from the Valais, take advantage of the chance to savor local labels. Most Swiss wine is not exported so it’s hard to get outside of the country, but that doesn’t mean the quality is lacking. In Vaud, take a walk through the protected Lavaux vineyards—the views of Lake Geneva from the steep terraces are breathtaking.

PLAN YOUR TRIP: Visit Fodor’s Switzerland Guide


Jess Moss
10 OF 12
Reach Great Heights at Piz Gloria
Vistas from Switzerland’s summits are spectacular, and you don’t need to be a climber to enjoy them. Cable cars, funiculars, and trains whisk you up thousands of feet to viewing stations and mountaintop restaurants. Visit a James Bond villain’s lair at Piz Gloria, an eatery atop Mt. Schilthorn, breathe in the chilly air on the Sphinx Terrace on the Jungfraujoch, or ride the world’s steepest cog railway to the top of Mt. Pilatus near Luzern.

PLAN YOUR TRIP: Visit Fodor’s Switzerland Guide


Sapientisat | Dreamstime.com
11 OF 12
Indulge in Chocolate at Nestle’s Callier Factory
Once you try really good Swiss chocolate, it’s hard to go back. This is where milk chocolate was invented (you can thank the cows for that), and chocolate-making is as much an art as it is a business. Satisfy your sweet tooth on a tour of Nestle’s Callier factory, or pick up some tasty bites as gifts or souvenirs. Our favorite shops are Sprungli and Teuscher in Zurich, Martel in Geneva, and Poyet in Vevey.

PLAN YOUR TRIP: Visit Fodor’s Switzerland Guide


Mlehmann78 | Dreamstime.com
12 OF 12
Take a Scenic Train Ride Aboard the Glacier Express
With 46 railway companies, more than 5,000 km (3,100 mi) of track, and a transportation system that’s rarely delayed, taking the train is the best way to get around Switzerland. Views from most trains will have you reaching for your camera, but for visually-stunning extras try one of the dedicated scenic routes, like the Glacier Express or Bernina Express, which often have panoramic windows and travel at slower speeds to let you soak in the sights.

PLAN YOUR TRIP: Visit Fodor’s Switzerland Guide

10 Spectacular Things To Do in Switzerland in 2020
Sep 11, 2018
 
Modified date: Nov 8, 2020
 
Home  Europe  Switzerland
Here is a guest post from Roger for all the things to do in Switzerland. We love to host guest posts from people who love the country they live in.

Switzerland is a fabled land of mountains, chocolate, watches, and money. And if you ever travel there you will find that all of those are true.

But what most people don’t know is that there is an endless amount of unique experiences to be had too.

Table of Contents	
What are the Things to Do in Switzerland in 2020?
Anything from throwing yourself off a perfectly good dam to stuffing yourself with cheese til you (almost) can’t stand the sight of it anymore.

This Alpine wonderland has it all.

In this post, I am going to share 10 epic things to your travel bucket list for 2020.

Ready to roll? Let’s get started…

Ride A Train Through A Mountain To The Top Of Europe
10 Unique Things To Do in Switzerland in 2018
Jungfraujoch
You might have heard that the Swiss build a lot of tunnels.

After all, the country is filled with mountains, so, it’s either up and over, or plow through with a tunnel.

The Swiss do both with top-notch Engineering!

On top of these amazing everyday feats, the Swiss have also managed to build the highest train station in Europe: on the ​Jungfraujoch​.

And, to get to this stunning location you have to pass through a mountain, literally!

The Jungfraujoch sits just behind the infamous Eiger mountain right near Interlaken. And to get to it, these crazy guys built a tunnel right through the mountain.

Not only that, they created a few windows that peak out the front of the Eiger, and a stop at a glacier too.

For me, the Jungfraujoch, complete with its views of Switzerland’s longest glacier (the Aletsch) is a must-see and experience!

Shoot Through The Longest Tunnel In The World
Continuing on with the tunnels theme is the recent opening of the ​Gotthard Basis Tunnel connecting the North and South of Switzerland.

10 Unique Things To Do in Switzerland in 2018
​Gotthard Basis Tunnel – Image Courtesy of​ Wikipedia
Unless you are a tunnel freak you may have missed all the news, but if you need to head South, it’s an amazing feat of engineering to check out from the comfort of your train:

Here are some Gotthard tunnel statistics to blow your mind:

The tunnel is 54 km (33.5 miles) long
It takes approximately 20 minutes for a train to pass through it
The train reaches speeds of 250 km/hr (155 miles/hr) on the very straight track
The journey between Zurich & Milan is now over 45 minutes shorter thanks to the tunnel
Any train heading from the North of Switzerland to the Italian part (or even Italy) will pass through it. Trains to Milan, Locarno, Lugano and anywhere in that region.

Just remember to be on the lookout for Erstfeld, the stop just before you head into the tunnel.

Jump Off The The Verzasca Dam (Like James Bond)
10 Unique Things To Do in Switzerland in 2018
Verzasca Dam – Image Courtesy of Wikipedia
Switzerland has a history of appearing in James Bond movies, and with all the mountainous scenery it’s really no surprise.

Mr. Bond has dodged wrongdoers on Swiss mountain passes.

Fought them on gondolas high above the valley floor However, the opening scene in the Golden Eye really took things to a new level.

Do you remember it? That scene where James Bond launches himself off the dam​ by doing a bungee jump right to the bottom.

Of course, he makes it look quite simple and not so scary, but my heart was in my throat for sure.

Well, guess what? You can do that too.

If you have the cajones! Just head down to the Verzasca valley in the south of Switzerland (via the Gotthard tunnel mentioned above) and ​sign yourself up!

It’s in a stunning area of Switzerland, a valley just outside of Locarno, where you can also do the canyoning I will mention in the next section.

So, even if you don’t intend on throwing yourself off a dam, it’s a stunning view nonetheless.

Slide Your Way Downstream
When all that snow in the Swiss Alps melts, it creates some stunningly blue and fast-running rivers.

And to make the best use of this, some creative Swiss tour operators have come up with a crazy activity called: Canyoning.

Canyoning involves squeezing yourself into a wetsuit, then throwing yourself down a river, often off waterfalls, to create one heck of an experience.

10 Unique Things To Do in Switzerland in 2018
Verzasca Valley
There are a number of places you can do this including ​the Verzasca Valley​ (if you are doing the Bungee off the dam you can do both in one day) or Interlaken (where the Jungfraujoch is).

So, you can usually combine a few things in one region.

Take A Helicopter Ride Over The Alps
Sure, there are helicopter rides everywhere around the world, but none quite like the one I took last year in Zermatt.

10 Unique Things To Do in Switzerland in 2018
Zermatt on its own is worth a visit.

It is a car-less town, right in the heart of the alps, that is as quaint as any alpine town can be. And, to top it all off, it is surrounded by some of the highest peaks in the Alps, including the iconic and pointy Matterhorn.

Now, imagine this stunning setting, but instead, from above.

That is what Air Zermatt can do for you. I recommend taking the 30min scenic ride, which quite honestly, will blow your mind.

They flew us over glaciers (I thought we were going “into it” at one point) within touching distance of the top of the Matterhorn (unless you are a climber, you will never see this view) and countless other highlights.

Sure, it’s expensive, but you will never doing anything like it.

Discover What All The Fuss Is About Watch Making
Switzerland is just a little bit famous for watches. You know, Rolex, Omega, Tissot, Breitling, Rado and little ol’ Swatch!

And, there are countless more (but I won’t bore you).

10 Unique Things To Do in Switzerland in 2018
Why not take a little time out on your trip to dive deep into watchmaking history, culture and technology and see what all the fuss is about.

You will be surprised how complex, minute, insanely time-consuming and drama-ridden this industry can be.

Depending on which part of Switzerland you find yourself in, there are countless opportunities to visit one of the watch manufacturer’s museums​ or public collections.

It’s a once in a lifetime opportunity to see Swiss watchmaking at its best.

Eat Yourself To A Chocolate Death
10 Unique Things To Do in Switzerland in 2018
You know chocolate is good for you, right?

And when you are in the home of chocolate you absolutely have to immerse yourself in at least one chocolate experience.

Here are a couple of ideas for you: If you are in the French part of Switzerland, I recommend heading to ​the Callier Chocolate factory​ for a tour you won’t forget.

You can also combine it with a trip to Gruyere, home of Switzerland’s tastiest cheese (no, not that “hole-filled” Swiss cheese you probably know, this is even better!).

Or you can simply visit some of the local chocolate shops in both Zurich and Geneva, and even throw in a trip to the Lindt factory outlet store in Kilchberg outside Zurich.

Soak Up Some Liquid Cheese, With Bread
10 Unique Things To Do in Switzerland in 2018
You can’t leave Switzerland without trying at least one Cheese Fondue and many Swiss capitals have great restaurants that can help you with that bucket list item.

However, if you want to take it to the next level, why not immerse yourself in a ​fondue experience while riding a historic tram​.

Zurich has one such trip on offer, where you can not only get your fill of fondue but also see the sights at the same time.

If you have ever ridden those tour buses in big cities, this is just like that but way better. You get wined, dined and all from the inside of a historic Zurich tram.

Ignite Your Passion For Aliens, In Switzerland
10 Unique Things To Do in Switzerland in 2018
Giger Alien themed Museum – Image courtesy Doggettx ​
Who hasn’t seen at least one of the Alien movies? Hands up! And who hasn’t lain awake afterward, wondering if that funny feeling in your stomach isn’t an alien growing inside you? Let’s move on.

Well, the creator of those disgustingly scary aliens in those movies, along with many of the backdrops, was H. R. Giger, a Swiss local.

So, while you are here you can ​visit his museum which is conveniently located in the stunning town of Gruyere.

This is a historic town at the top of a hill, complete with a town square, wall, and castle.

Giger bought a few of the old buildings and made his art museum, as well as an Alien-themed bar.

So, after taking in all his warped ideas in the museum (including a gun loaded with bullet-people) you can also have a drink in his Alien-themed bar, right next door.

You will never get an experience quite like sipping a gin and tonic while surrounded by aliens, literally! Everything is Alien-themed in this bar including the walls, chairs, bar and some rather odd ideas in the restrooms.

It’s up to you if you want to visit, but it’s a once in a lifetime experience.

Relax In An Outdoor Spa In The Alps
After you have exhausted yourself with adrenaline-pumping activities and filled yourself with local Swiss food, it’s time to relax.

There is no better way to do that than in a designer Swiss spa right in the heart of the Alps.

Surround yourself with snow-capped peaks, fresh mountain air and perhaps even the sound of bells jingling on distant cows grazing.

One of my favorites, that is definitely not going to blow the budget, is ​Rigi Kaltbad​.

10 Unique Things To Do in Switzerland in 2018
View from Rigi Kaltbad
It’s a super modern spa designed by one of Switzerland’s most famous spa designers (yes, there is such a thing) that also has stunning views over Lake Lucerne and the mountains in the region.

You should combine it with a day trip and boat road from Lucerne. You can take the boat from the shore of the lake downtown, right to the gondola in Weggis.

From there, take the gondola to the top and land right at the front door of the spa. All you need to do is bring your swimsuit, and some warm clothes for the boat ride back!

What is the Best Time to Visit Switzerland?
Depending on the things you want to do in Switzerland, the season to visit varies.

Weather varies extremely too, so you need to plan carefully.

Do avoid borderline travel. This means that it may heavily snow during early spring and/or late fall.

Important notes:

Make sure you book ahead for Switzerland
Check flights as soon as possible
If you plan to get there by train then check this website
Always use travel insurance
Check a really interesting range of more than 350 tours
Spring: Spring is really green with all the flowers and trees blooming. However, if you plan for high alpine hiking then even May is early enough.

Summer: Summer and especially June is the time where hiking experiences start. July and August are the high peak months for visitors.

Autumn: September and October are great for outdoor activities. Less busy hiking trails and nights are slightly cold, while day time is sunny. Keep in mind that mist and fog start creeping in many valleys.

Winter: Snow and cold. Ski areas may not be open all the time. It depends on the severity of the weather. Christmas to January is rather busy when it comes to ski resorts.

That’s 10 Epic Experiences
Phew! That’s 10 epic and unique experiences. Switzerland certainly does have the scenery, location and adventure activities to keep absolutely anyone entertained for months on end.

All you have to do is make it your next travel destination and the rest will take care of itself.

I hope you found at least one one adventure to suit your tastes and have already noted it down for your bucket list.

See you soon, in Switzerland!

Bio: Roger is an Aussie ex-pat living in Switzerland who spends as much time as he can traveling and visiting every corner of this amazing country. You can find him blogging about it here or on Twitter here.

SWITZERLAND TRAVEL GUIDE
Last Updated: August 31, 2020

the Matterhorn with purple flowers in bloom, Switzerland
As one of the most expensive countries in Europe, Switzerland is often skipped over by budget travelers.

Visiting Switzerland is not cheaper. Before you even get out of the train station/airport, you’ll begin to wonder “how the heck did I spend so much money already?!”

Even when I was backpacking Switzerland, I found myself constantly trying to find ways to save money.

Yet, while it is not a cheap destination, Switzerland is one of the most beautiful places on earth.

The country is home to shimmering lakes, picturesque mountains (hello Alps!), tiny walled medieval towns, soaring peaks, endless green fields you want to run through, delicious chocolate, icnredible beer, and friendly, welcoming people.

Everything runs on time here, the country is safe, and everyone is super nice. I loved my time traveling around Switzerland.

The country rocks no matter what time of the year you visit (summer hiking, winter skiing).

To help lower your costs, use this travel guide to Switzerland to help you plan your trip and save money!

Table of Contents
Things to See and Do
Typical Costs
Suggested Budget
Money Saving Tips
Where To Stay
How to Get Around
When To Go
How to Stay Safe
Best Places to Book Your Trip
Gear and Packing List
Suggested Reading
My Detailed Guidebooks
Related Blogs on Switzerland
Click Here for City Guides
Top 5 Things to See and Do in Switzerland
aerial view over Bern, with the cathedral tower
1. Visit the capital, BernBern has an amazing historic town center that you’ll want to walk around all day long. This part of town is filled with medieval clocktowers, cobblestone streets, churches, and well-preserved sandstone homes. Be sure to walk the River Aare way, visit the History Museum and the Einstein Museum, and check out the bears at the Bear Park!
skiers on the Matterhorn on a cloudy day
2. Ski the MatterhornThe Matterhorn’s sharp angular peak is one of Switzerland’s most iconic attractions. You’ll have to take a train or bus into the Zermatt area (the closest town to the mountain) as cars aren’t allowed. Not only do you need to ski here, but you can come to admire what’s truly a pollutant-free area. And, if you miss ski season, come hike the mountain in the summer.
the streets of Zurich with the cathedral in the background
3. Visit ZurichZürich is also set on beautiful Zurich Lake, near the mountains, and is close to a lot of other cities (like Bern). I love the historic center that opens up on the lake – a perfect day is sitting in the parks, and drinking a beer on the lakefront. The city is also very arty and full of street art and museums.
snow-capped mountains in Interlaken, Switzerland
4. Be adventurous in InterlakenInterlaken is one of the outdoor capitals of the country (though it’s quite touristy during peak season). There is a lot to do here for the adrenaline-seeker: skydiving over a Swiss glacier, water-skiing, skiing, hiking, etc. This is also ground zero for backpackers since there are so many free outdoor activities.
green farmland over Lake Geneva
5. Visit the Swiss RivieraThe “Swiss Riviera” is situated in Lavaux (Cantan of Vaud) and goes along Lake Geneva. You can visit unique terraced vineyards that overlook the lake, the 12th-century castle Château de Chillon built on the water, and the town of Montreux, which is famous for its annual jazz festival.
Other Things to See and Do in Switzerland
1. Join in the Fasnacht Spring Carnival
This festival in Basel is a three-day party that welcomes in the warm weather and takes place annually on the Monday following Ash Wednesday. It’s something that’s highly anticipated by both tourists and locals, and it’s definitely Switzerland’s most popular festival. Fasnächtlers dress in elaborate costumes to hide their identities and parade around town with “cliques” (bands playing basler drums and piccolos). All the bars and restaurants in town remain open throughout the entire three days. Everyone here is in a good mood!

2. Explore Geneva
As the third largest city in Switzerland, Geneva offers spectacular views of the city’s lake (Lake Geneva), the world’s largest fountain, the UN, a historic city center, and a collection of international restaurants to satisfy anyone’s palate (thanks to the UN buildings in town). While you’re here make sure you check out the Geneva’s Art and History Museum or the Red Cross and Red Crescent Museum. There are 40 museums here in total!

3. Hike Mt. Pilatus
Located right outside the city of Lucerne, this beautiful mountain has breathtaking views of the alps. From the city, you can take a cable car to the top or (better yet) hike its trails to the top to look out over the Swiss Alps. There are some easier trails around the northern side of Pilatus, as well as other attractions in the summer months such as a ropes course.

4. Picnic at the Rhine Falls
Pack a picnic lunch and look out at your view of Europe’s largest waterfall. If you hop on a boat tour you can get extra close to the giant rock in the middle of the falls, and you’ll also experience the Rhine Falls Basin. Nearby in the town of Schaffhausen, you’ll find a medieval castle which also houses a hostel for cheap but interesting accommodations.

5. Explore St. Gallen
The seventh largest city in Switzerland, St. Gallen boasts beautiful museums, colorful murals, and one-of-a-kind architecture. It doesn’t receive as much tourist traffic as the other cities and regions around the country, but it’s a fun town full of students and you’re likely to befriend a few locals during your visit. Must-do: visit the Baroque cathedral and the Abbey Library, which is home to nearly 170,000 documents. Some are hand-written and over a thousand years old!

6. Visit the Old Villages
Visit the Graubunden area of the country, where you’ll find villages with houses dating back to the 13th century. Here they also speak an ancient language called Romanch, which has died out everywhere else in the country and the locals take great pride in keeping the tradition alive. Of course, it’s a haven for nature lovers – there are 615 lakes and 150 valleys in the region. Visiting here is a true Swiss Alpine experience.

7. Have a romantic time in Montreux
With a picturesque castle (Chateau de Chillo) lying at the edge of a lake, this area makes for a pretty romantic destination. Tour the castle, which dates all the way back to the 12th century and inspired the likes of Lord Byron, Mary Shelley, and more. The town was also the home of Freddie Mercury and there is a statue here in his honor. It costs 12.50 CHF ($12.55 USD) to visit the castle.

8. Discover rural culture in Appenzell
This small village of 7,000 lies in the canton of Appenzell Innerrhoden. There are no cars and the village has upheld much of its local traditions and culture, including dance and folk music. It’s an incredibly picturesque little town, with frescoed buildings and narrow alleyways. Its location near the foot of the Alpstein mountains makes it a great gateway for participating in summer and winter outdoor activities, like hiking and skiing. Take the Appenzell Railway to Wasserauen, and explore the fascinating prehistoric Wildkirchli caves (inhabited around 40,000 years ago).

9. Visit Lucerne
You can’t get much more of a typical Swiss destination than Lucerne. Located on the beautiful Lucerne Lake, the city offers a wonderful combination of urban life and nature. Spend some time in the old town, especially Weinmarkt, surrounded by medieval guildhalls and decorative buildings. Cross Chapel Bridge, the world’s oldest surviving truss bridge, and pay attention to the 17th-century ceiling paintings showing events from Lucerne’s history.

Switzerland Travel Costs
Accommodation – Hostel dorms average 30 CHF ($30 USD) per night, but in some major cities, they can run as high 50 CHF ($50 USD). Private hostels rooms range from 80-120 CHF ($81-121 USD) a night for rooms that sleep two. Most hostels offer free linens, WiFi, and some include breakfast. Hotels are super expensive. You should expect to spend between 90-120 CHF ($90-121 USD) per night for the most basic of rooms. For something a little nice and more spacious, look closer to 150-200 CHF ($151-202 USD) per night. A much better alternative to hotels is Airbnb, where a shared room in someone’s house typically costs 30 CHF ($30 USD) a night and an entire apartment is about 60 CHF ($60 USD).

Food – Although eating out is very pricey (as an easy comparison: Starbucks coffee is 8 CHF/$8 USD while McDonald’s is 15 CHF/$15 USD), you can keep your spending in check by going to the local supermarkets and buying your own groceries. You’ll spend around 130 CHF ($131 USD) per week for basics like pasta, sandwich ingredients, sauce, rice, eggs, and fruits and vegetables. Supermarkets also sell pre-made meals for between 5-9 CHF ($5-9 USD). Bars and cafés are the cheapest food option, cost about 9-15 CHF ($9-15 USD) for a lunch special. Restaurants with table service are around 20 CHF ($20 USD) for lunch and 40 CHF ($40 USD) for dinner (starter, main, and drink) to start (prices go up from there and I saw some Italian restaurants asking 35 CHF ($35 USD) per main course!! That’s expensive pasta!). You’ll typically find pizzas for around 20 CHF ($20 USD) in a restaurant. If you’re dining out (but still trying to stick to a budget), you’ll spend an average of 45 CHF ($45 USD) a day on food. From there, the sky is the limit! For people who want to cook and eat the occasional meal out, expect to spend around 20 CHF ($20 USD) per day.

Activities – Most museums cost around 10 CHF ($10 USD) to enter (if you are a student, you’ll save 2-4 CHF ($2-4 USD) off the price of your admission (be sure to have your student ID with you). All day hiking excursions or adventure activities begin around 70 CHF ($70 USD). Paragliding costs about 160 CHF ($161 USD) and a bit more in the winter. Ski and snowboard lift tickets can cost anywhere from 27-75 CHF ($27-75 USD) per day (depending on the mountain), and 6-day passes cost 4-5 times the price of the daily pass, so if you’re staying for a while, buy that.

Backpacking Switzerland Suggested Budgets
For those backpacking through Switzerland, budget at least 70-108 CHF ($70-110 USD) per day. This is a suggested budget assuming you’re staying in a hostel, cooking most of your meals or eating fast food, and using local transportation or mostly walking. This is also assuming you’re enjoying plenty of free nature, or an occasional museum.

If you Couchsurf, cook all your food, and rideshare, you could probably do the country between $50-70 USD per day. It would be a tight budget but it would be doable.

For a mid-range budget of 230-270 CHF ($235-275 USD) per day, you’ll get to eat mostly fast food meals, stay in private hostel rooms, do some intercity trips, and opt for a few outdoor excursions or other attractions.

For a luxury budget of 490+ CHF ($500+ USD) per day, you can afford to eat out at restaurants, stay in nice hostels, have more flexibility with intercity travel, and enjoy more expensive activities (like multi-day ski passes or tours).

Accommodation
Food
Transportation
Attractions
Average Daily Cost
Backpacker
$30-50
$20
$10
$10-30
$70-110
Mid-Range
$81-120
$60
$25
$70
$235-275
Luxury
$200
$100
$100
$100-200
$500+
Switzerland Travel Guide: Money Saving Tips
Switzerland is a very expensive country. There’s no hiding that fact. But there are plenty of ways to save money in the country so you don’t go bankrupt while visiting. Here are some helpful, high value ways I lowered my costs:

Have an ISIC Card – To save 20-50% on the cost of admission to museums and other tourist attractions, be sure to present a valid student card. The ISIC is typically accepted in places where a foreign student ID is not.
Use Couchsurfing – It’s a service that lets travelers stay with locals for free. It was a lifesaver that allowed me to keep my costs down the most. Since a lot of travelers use this service, make your requests for hosts early.
Use BlaBlaCar – Transportation is very expensive, even more so than accommodation. Most intercity trains are around 50 CHF ($50 USD). That adds up too quickly! Instead, use the ride-sharing website BlaBlaCar to avoid the trains and meet locals. A word of caution: Be advised that many rides cancel. I had three rides cancel on me at the last minute (and one guy who just failed to even show up), so the service requires some flexibility. But when it works, it’s awesome.
Use hotel points – Hotel reward points are a lifesaver in an expensive destination, where even hostels are expensive and the chance of getting a Couchsurfing host is small. Rack up a few hotel points by travel hacking before your trip and burn them while you stay in the country. Most hotel sign-up bonuses are around 60,000 points, which is worth about five nights at the chain hotels like Hilton, Marriott, or Starwood (just make sure you stay at their cheaper properties. Sorry, no W for you!).
Don’t drink – Drinking is not cheap here. Most beers are around 8 CHF ($8 USD). (Plus, who wants to hike while hung over?) Most wines are between 10-25 CHF ($10-25 USD) a bottle. If you must drink, stick to hostel bars where you can enjoy 2-for-1 happy hours and cheap drinks for around 5 CHF ($5 USD) or buy your beers at grocery stores for as little was 2 CHF ($2 USD).
Cook – With sit-down restaurants costing around 40 CHF ($40 USD) per meal per person, eating out in Switzerland can be very costly, so buy your groceries. A week’s worth of food (bread, pasta, rice, eggs, vegetables, cheese, deli meats for sandwiches, and some assorted fruit) will cost you 75-100 CHF ($75-101 USD). The major supermarkets are Migros, COOP, and Spar. COOP is the most expensive.
Go veggie – Meat is expensive in Switzerland. Every Swiss resident or expat I talked to told me about how they limit their meat consumption because it costs so much. Stick to veggies and avoid buying meat for your meals (especially beef). While I was trolling supermarkets and butchers for grocery prices (travel writing is glamorous, huh?!), I found a pound of meat was 12-14 CHF ($12-14 USD). At that price, stick to deli meats for protein!
Use lunch specials – If you are going to eat out, do so during lunch when most lunch specials at cafes and restaurants cost around 10-19 CHF ($10-19 USD). Moreover, stick to the ethnic restaurants like Chinese, Middle Eastern, Indian, or Thai for the best deals and biggest portions (and closer to that 10 CHF/$10 USD price). Lunch specials are a great way to get a lot of bang for your buck and to enjoy the dinner menu but at a cheaper set menu price.
Bring a refillable water bottle – At 2-4 CHF ($2-4 USD) a bottle, that’s a lot of money spent on water after a few days. The water in Basel is safe to drink, so refill your bottle before you go out to save money.
Book your trains early – While a train ride is a cheaper way to travel than the plane, you can get even cheaper rates by booking your train ticket early. Swiss Rail also offers one-day and weekend group passes to look into.
Where To Stay in Switzerland
Hostels are the way to go in Switzerland! Fortunately there are plenty of clean, well-maintained hostels around. My suggested places are:

Balmers (Interlaken)
Funny Farm (Interlaken)
(Zurich)
(Zurich)
(Geneva)
(Geneva)
(Bern)
(Bern)
How to Get Around Switzerland
Public Transportation – Cities and towns in Switzerland are incredibly well connected with trams, buses, funiculars, trains, etc. Each mode of transportation is safe, clean, and reliable. A single fare will usually cost between 2.50-5 CHF ($2.50-5 USD) depending on the length of time and number of zones you travel.

Uber is available in Basel, Geneva, and Zurich. Otherwise, taxi fare is expensive!

The larger cities also have excellent public bike sharing and car sharing programs. PubliBike and Mobility let you rent bikes and cars via their app, starting at around 4.50 CH per 30 minutes for bicycles and 0.55 CH per kilometer for car rentals.

You should consider getting a Swiss Half Fare Card. It will allow you to travel by train, bus, boat, and most mountain railways at half the price for one full month, and it only costs 120 CHF ($121 USD). This will only be cost effective if you intend to spend more than 240 CHF ($242 USD) on public transportation.

If you’re staying awhile and plan on cramming a LOT into your itinerary, you might want to look into getting a Swiss Travel Pass. It’s steep in price – ranging from 225 CH ($227 USD) for 3 consecutive days to 485 CH ($490 USD) for 15 consecutive days (there are non-consecutive passes as well) – but it could be worth your time. It covers all public transit (train, boat, bus), free travel on panorama trains, admission to 500 museums, mountain excursions, and more. The card will also hold your Mobility and PubliBike memberships, and any MobilSki passes for the resorts.

If you’re considering the Swiss Half Fare Card or the Swiss Travel Pass, use the sbb.ch website to figure out the full fares for some of the trips you plan to make. This is the best way to figure out if either card is cost effective for you.

Train – Train is the best way to travel in Switzerland, and is the most preferred method for locals. It’s economical and efficient. For example, Bern to Geneva (a two-hour train) costs around 30 CHF ($30 USD). A two-hour trip from Zurich to Interlaken is about 35 CH ($35 USD), while a 1.5 hour trip from Zurich to Bern is around 25 CH ($25 USD). Expect to pay anywhere between 30-50 CHF ($30-50 USD) for a second-class train ticket between cities.
As mentioned above, if you plan on doing a lot of train travel, consider the Swiss Travel Pass or the Half Fare Card.

Bus – Flixbus offers a few routes around the country. A 90-minute ride from Zurich to Bern starts at 13 CH ($13 USD), while a 5-hour journey from Zurich to Geneva starts at 26 CH ($26 USD).

Flying – The country is so tiny, there’s no need to fly. It’s expensive and not worth the hassle. Take the train or bus!

Ridesharing – Using a ridesharing service like BlaBlaCar is one of the best ways to get around the country, although it does require some flexibility! It lets you share rides with vetted local drivers by pitching in for gas. You simply request a seat, they approve, and off you go! It’s a cheaper and more interesting way travel than by bus or train!

Hitchhiking – Hitchhiking in Switzerland is a great way to get around, although it’s legal to hitchhike on motorways (it’s fine to do at gas stations though). It’s a common practice in the mountain regions and country areas, where public transit isn’t as readily available. Hitchwiki.org is a great resource.

When to Go to Switzerland
The right time to visit Switzerland depends entirely on what you’d like to do. Are you planning a ski trip? Sampling all the chocolate? Hiking the Alps?

Most visitors come in the summer season, from May to September (although in the mountains temperatures don’t really start warming up until June). July and August has the warmest temperatures, with snow-free hiking trails and longer days. If you’re around on August 1st, you’ll witness tons of celebrations for Swiss National Day (fireworks!). Peak temperatures are 65°-82°F (18 to 28 °C), with almost no humidity.

The shoulder seasons are from around April to early May and late October to the end of November, which is known in Switzerland as Zwischenzeit – the “between time” for the ski and summer seasons. It’s a good time for city hopping, but the ski resort towns are completely quiet and a lot of things are closed. The weather can also be unpredictable.

Ski season is from December to March, where resort towns get crowded and very expensive! If you’re a skier, that probably won’t matter much – Switzerland has some of the best skiing in the world. Conversely, cities like Zurich are quieter as everyone flocks to the mountains. The weather is cold – averaging 28°-45°F (-2-7°C) daily – so be sure to pack plenty of layers.

How to Stay Safe in Switzerland
Switzerland is one of the safest countries in the world, including for solo travelers and solo female travelers. The most common type of crime is pickpocketing in tourist-heavy areas. In some cities, like Geneva, petty crime is on the rise.

If you’re traveling in the mountains, keep an eye on weather reports and forecasts. The weather can be extreme! If you’re prone to altitude sickness you will also want to prepare accordingly.

You can read about the 14 travel scams to avoid right here.

Always trust your gut instinct. If a taxi driver seems shady, stop the cab and get out. If your hotel is seedier than you thought, get out of there. Make copies of your personal documents, including your passport and ID.

If you don’t do it at home, don’t do it in Switzerland!

The most important piece of advice I can offer is to purchase good travel insurance. Travel insurance will protect you against illness, injury, theft, and cancellations. It’s comprehensive protection in case anything goes wrong. I never go on a trip without it as I’ve had to use it many times in the past. You can use the widget below to find the policy right for you:

Travel Insurance. Simple & Flexible.
Which countries or regions are you traveling to?
e.g. Thailand, Vietnam
What's your country of residence?
e.g. United States (USA)
Start date
10th Dec 20
End date
16th Dec 20
Enter Traveler's Age
(e.g. 28, 24)
Get a Price
Switzerland Travel Guide: The Best Booking Resources
These are my favorite companies to use when I travel to Switzerland. They are included here because they consistently find deals, offer world-class customer service and great value, and overall, are better than their competitors. They are the ones I use the most and are always the starting points in my search for travel deals.

Momondo – This is my favorite booking site. I never book a flight without checking here first.
Skyscanner – Skyscanner is another great flight search engline which searches a lot of different airlines, including many of the budget carriers that larger sites miss. While I always start with Momondo, I use this site too as a way to compare prices.
Airbnb – Airbnb is a great accommodation alternative for connecting with homeowners who rent out their homes or apartments. (If you’re new to Airbnb, get $35 off your first stay!)
– This is the best hostel accommodation site out there, with the largest inventory, best search interface, and widest availability.
Couchsurfing – This website allows you to stay on people’s couches or spare rooms for free. It’s a great way to save money while meeting locals who can tell you the ins and outs of their city. The site also lists events you can attend to meet people (even if you’re not staying with someone).
Booking.com – The best all around booking site that constantly provides the cheapest and lowest rates. They have a no money down policy, great interface, and the widest selection of budget accommodation. In all my tests, they’ve always had the cheapest rates out of all the booking websites.
Rail Europe – If you are going to Europe and taking a lot of high speed or long distance trains, get a rail pass. I’ve used a rail pass three times and saved hundreds of dollars each time. The math just works.
Intrepid Travel – If you want to do a group tour around Switzerland, go with Intrepid Travel. They offer good small group tours that use local operators and leave a small environmental footprint. If you go on a tour with anyone, go with them. And, as a reader of this site, you’ll get exclusive discounts when you click the link!
The Man in Seat 61 – This website is the ultimate guide to train travel anywhere in the world. They have the most comprehensive information on routes, times, prices, and train conditions. If you are planning a long train journey or some epic train trip, consult this site.
Rome 2 Rio – This website allows you to see how to get from point A to point B the best and cheapest way possible. It will give you all the bus, train, plane, or boat routes that can get you there as well as how much they cost.
FlixBus – German based Flixbus has routes between 20 European countries with prices starting as low 6 CH ($6 USD)! Their buses include WiFi, electrical outlets, and up to three 3 free bags.
Bla Bla Car – BlaBlaCar is a ridesharing website that lets you share rides with vetted local drivers by pitching in for gas. You simply request a seat, they approve, and off you go! It’s a cheaper and more interesting way travel than by bus or train!
Swiss Half Fare Card – The Swiss Half Fare Card will allow you unlimited travel by train, bus, boat, and most mountain railways at half the price for one full month, and it only costs 120 CHF ($121 USD). This will only be cost effective if you intend to spend more than 240 CHF ($242 USD) on public transportation.
World Nomads – I buy all my travel insurance from World Nomads. They have great customer service, competitive prices, and in-depth coverage. I’ve been using them since I started traveling in 2003. Don’t leave home without it!

Ready to explore the majestic beauty of Switzerland? Whether you’re visiting or moving there, you won’t want to miss any of our top 10 places to visit in Switzerland.

Switzerland may be small but it has a whole host of great places to visit. From breathtaking mountain peaks to dreamy turquoise lakes and a countryside littered with ancient wonders, Switzerland really does have something for everyone.

In fact, there’s so much packed into Switzerland’s borders that expats and visitors alike will find it difficult to decide where to visit next. But fear not! With our guide to the top 10 places to visit in Switzerland, you’ll soon be exploring the stunning beauty of this unforgettable Alpine gem.

Babbel
Do you know your guten tags from your bonjours? Get more out of your Swiss adventure by brushing up on the local lingos with language-learning app Babbel. Whether you want to learn French, German, or Italian, their professionally-made courses can help get your there. Download Babbel today and travel with confidence.


Get the app
1. The Matterhorn
This pyramid-shaped giant is one of the world’s most photographed mountains, which means it’s definitely a top place to visit in Switzerland. Standing at an impressive 4,478 meters, thrill-seeking mountaineers from around the globe descend on Switzerland to attempt the summit. If you’re not feeling quite so energetic, why not stick to the cable car? The mountain is home to the highest cable car station in the Alp, which offers some excellent views of the mountain peak and beyond. It really doesn’t get much more Swiss than a trip to the Matterhorn.

Matterhorn
You won’t want to miss…
Visting the Matterhorn Museum in Zermatt
Instagramming from the Gornergrat observation platform
Skiing on the Theodul Glacier 365 days a year
2. Château de Chillon
No trip to the Swiss Riviera is complete without checking out the medieval Château de Chillon. Located on an island in Lake Geneva near the popular town of Montreux, the castle dates back to the 10th century, when it was used as a strategic water fort. It then became a lakeside summer home for the wealthy Counts of Savoy, when the castle rooms were decked out with all manner of art and treasures visitors can enjoy today. The castle is Switzerland’s most-visited historical monument and is definitely a must-see while you’re exploring the country.

Chateau de Chillon
You won’t want to miss…
Taking in the castle’s three sumptuous great halls
Gasping at the impressive weapons room
Enjoying the boat ride from Montreux to the château
3. Jungfraujoch
The Jungfraujoch is an Alpine wonderland that fully deserves its nickname of the Top of Europe. Technically a glacier saddle between two mountains, the Jungfraujoch is one the best – and highest – attractions in Switzerland. And don’t let the altitude put you off – there’s plenty for the whole family up there, from mountain climbing to tobogganing and much more. However, perhaps the most impressive attraction is the world-famous Jungfrau railway. Starting at Kleine Scheidegg, the train climbs up to 3,454 meters above sea level to Jungfraujoch, the highest railway station in Europe.

Jungfrau
You won’t want to miss…
Exploring the Ice Palace inside the glacier and seeing the famous ice sculptures
Flying through the air on the popular zip-line
Being amazed by the views from the Sphinx Observatory
4. Schweizerischer Nationalpark
In a country with amazing scenery at every turn, it can be hard to know where to go. But one thing for certain is that you’ll want to visit the Swiss National Par near Zernez. As the country’s only national park, it’ll give you an idea of how the Alps were before tourism. From snow-crusted glaciers to captivating meadows, this place has it all. There are plenty of hiking trails to choose from, each taking visitors past unforgettable sights. And, if you’re lucky you might catch sight of some of the park’s local residents – red squirrels, ibexes, and red deer all call this park home.


You won’t want to miss…
Checking out the skies – golden eagles live in the area
Learning about the bears that once roamed the park at the Schmelzra Museum
Exploring one of the park’s 21 hiking routes
5. Lake Geneva
Stretching from Geneva in the west to Lausanne in the east, Lake Geneva is one of Switzerland’s most beautiful places. From the international bustle of Geneva to the many vineyards that crawl up the hillsides around the lake, there’s plenty to do in the surrounding region. And there’s a lot of activity on the lake, too. Windsurfing, water skiing, and kayaking are all possible for more active visitors to the area. Or, if you’re feeling a little lazier, you can simply sit back and take in the beauty of the lake from the deck of a paddle steamer as it crosses the water.


You won’t want to miss…
Tasting the local wines as you take a vineyard tour
Taking the perfect Jet d’eau photo in Geneva
Going night-skiing in the mountains when the temperatures drop
6. Lugano
See Switzerland in a whole new light with a trip to the southern city of Lugano. Nestled on the shores of the breathtaking Lake Lugano, the city dubbed the “Monte Carlo of Switzerland” blends Swiss and Italian cultures into an unforgettable weekend break. Home to plenty of museums and warmed by Mediterranean breezes, you might even think you’re in nearby Italy when you visit. Outside the city, impressive villas are sprinkled around the lush hillsides that rise from the lake.


You won’t want to miss…
Seeing the best of Switzerland in miniature at the kid-friendly Swissminiatur
Brushing up on your Italian by chatting to the locals
Indulging your tastebuds with Lugano’s unique local delicacies
7. Bern
Not only is the medieval city of Bern Switzerland’s capital, but it’s also one of its most enchanting places to visit. Walk around the old town’s narrow cobblestone stones and you’ll soon realize just why the neighborhood is listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. All across Bern’s historic center, you’ll find a whole host of boutiques, bars, and bears. Yes, that’s right, a family of bears – the city’s symbol – lives at the city’s aptly named Bear Park just across the river from the old town. If that wasn’t enough, the city hosts plenty of lively markets, including some memorable Christmas markets during Advent.


You won’t want to miss…
Uncovering your inner genius at the Albert Einstein Museum, located in his old flat
Telling the time at the famous Zytglogge, the landmark 13th-century tower
Taking a dip in one of the city’s popular outside swimming pools
8. Lucerne
In a country of picture-perfect lakeside cities, it doesn’t get much more impressive than Lucerne. Surrounded by three large mountains, the compact medieval city sits on the shores of Lake Lucerne. Wandering around the captivating old town, you’ll be forgiven for thinking you’ve stepped into a painting. There’s ancient churches, bustling squares and plenty of boutiques to explore as you marvel at the architectural wonder of the city. But the highlight is the Chapel Bridge, a covered wooden bridge that has been connecting the center of Lucerne since 1333.


You won’t want to miss…
Capturing the perfect shot of the majestic Chapel Bridge
Getting a bird’s eye view from Lucerne’s city wall watchtowers
Checking out Switzerland’s Transport Museum
9. Rhine Falls
As Europe’s most powerful waterfall, it’s easy to see why Rhine Falls is one of the top things to do in Switzerland. Visitors can take in the beauty of the waterfall – located near the northern town of Schaffhausen – from several viewing decks. If you’re feeling more adventurous, you can even rent a canoe and check out some nearby castles from the water. Every August, the falls host a spectacular firework display that attracts visitors from around the country as part of Switzerland’s National Day celebrations.


You won’t want to miss…
Getting up close and personal with the falls from a boat
Exploring the treetops at the nearby Rhine Falls Adventure Park
Relaxing with a drink at a cafe that overlooks the falls
10. Zurich
And last but not least, no list of the top things to do in Switzerland would be complete without mentioning Zurich. The largest Swiss city, Zurich is also the social and cultural hub of the country. In fact, despite its world-renowned financial offerings, Zurich has a surprisingly bustling social scene. From the popular Pride parade to Europe’s largest street rave, there’s a lot going on. And, if all that wasn’t enough, the city’s pretty easy on the eye – from the charming streets of the old town to the stunning scenery of Lake Zurich.


You won’t want to miss…
Relaxing in the parkland that stretches along the waterfront
Exploring the beautiful game at the FIFA World Football Museum
Enjoying an Aperol Spritz on a busy square in the old town

Summer travel: 26 things to do in Switzerland’s 26 cantons
The Local Switzerland
news@thelocal.ch
@thelocalswitzer
19 July 2017
12:34 CEST+02:00

Updated
12 June 2019
18:57 CEST+02:00
santiszugzurichjura
Share this article
   
Summer travel: 26 things to do in Switzerland’s 26 cantons
The lovely town of St Ursanne in Switzerland's Jura canton. Photo: Photo: Ivo Scholz/Swiss Tourism
From Aargau to Zurich, we take a whistle-stop trip around the highlights for Switzerland's 26 cantons vising castles, lakes and mountains along the way.
Aargau: Lenzberg Castle
 

 
Lenzburg Castle. File photo: Depositphotos
 
With a history dating back a thousand years, Aargau’s Lenzberg Castle is well worth a visit. Also known as the Dragon Castle, this 'Schloss' comes complete with its own dragon’s lair, a drawbridge, a knight’s hall and picnic-worthy gardens. A great day-trip, with a fantastic kids’ playroom where you can dress up as knights, ladies and dragons too, of course!
 
Appenzell Ausserrhoden: Säntis
 

 
Idyllic Apenzell with the Säntis in the background. Image: Depositphotos
 
The small half-cantons of Appenzell Ausserrhoden (traditionally Catholic) and Innerrhoden (traditionally Protestant) make up the picturesque region of Appenzellerland.
 
When visiting Ausserrhoden, you can’t go past (literally) its resident mountain, Säntis. An impressive peak reaching to 2,501m, Santis is the tallest mountain in the Alpstein massif. Catch a cable car (or hike) to the top and gaze out over neighbouring cantons Appenzell Innerrhoden and St Gallen or over Lake Constance.
 

 
Boys from Appenzell in traditional costumes. Photo: AFP
 
It is said that on a clear day that you can see six countries from the top of the Säntis: Switzerland, Germany, Austria, France, Lichtenstein and Italy.
 
Plan B: Appenzell cheese factory
Sample one of Appenzellerland’s most famous local products with a trip to the Appenzell cheese factory and museum. 
 
Appenzell Innerrhoden: Berggasthaus Aescher
 

Photo: Aescher Alpstein
 
An Instagram staple, Berggasthaus Aescher gives new meaning to the term “destination restaurant” – even when that is not always positive news.
 
Located a cable-car ride and short hike from Wasserauen, Aescher is built right into the cliff face and clings dazzlingly to the side of the Ebenalp mountain (if you go inside, you’ll see the back wall of the hotel is actually living rock). It's open May to November.
 
Basel-Landschaft: Augusta Rurica
 

Photo: Suzanne Schenker
 
Soak up some of this canton’s ancient Roman history at Augusta Rurica, Switzerland’s largest archaeological park. The ruins from some of the earliest Roman settlements along the Rhine river include an amphitheatre, a castle and aqueduct. There’s also a museum containing the treasure of Kaiseraugst, one of the largest hoards of Roman silver ever discovered. 
 
Basel-Stadt: Fondation Beyeler
 

Photo: Stephan Schacher/Fondation Beyeler
 
Switzerland’s self-styled capital of culture hosts the famous international art fair Art Basel annually in June. However, if you can’t be there for those four days, do not despair! The city offers a wealth of high-profile art year-round.
 
Check out Fondation Beyeler, with its impressive exhibition schedule of classic modern and contemporary artists, and the permanent collection including Monet, Kandinsky, Picasso, Warhol, Matisse and Rothko. This year's summer exhibition is given over to contemporary painter Rudolf Stingel including works that has never before been shown.
 
Bern: the Old Town 
 

 
Bern's historic old town. File photo: Depositphotos
 
The Swiss capital city’s Old Town (Altstadt) was declared a Unesco World Heritage site in 1983 and it’s easy to see why. The charming medieval streets and well-preserved renaissance buildings are dramatically situated on and above the steep banks of the River Aare, which is where the city's residents go to cool off on hot summer afternoons.
 
Read also: Opinion - 13 reasons I love living in Switzerland's capital Bern
 
Plan B: The Bernese Oberland 
It's less of a plan B and more of a must-do-as-well. The countryside around Bern has some world-class scenery. Check out the pretty, car-free town of Wengen with views to the 'big three' mountains: Eiger, Mönch and Jungfrau or swim in the turquoise waters of Lake Thun and Lake Brienz.
 
Fribourg: Gruyères 
 

The fantastical bar at the Giger Museum. Photo: HR Giger Museum
 
The historic walled town of Gruyères offers many delights, from its famous cheese (honoured in the Maison du Gruyère where you can see it being made) to visiting the museum devoted to Swiss artist HR Giger.
 
Read also: From anarchy to onion heads - The Local's A–Z guide to Swiss culture
 
This museum is home to the largest collection of the Alien designer’s dark, organic sci-fi sculptures, paintings, furniture and film designs. 
 
Plan B: Frog Museum
Another medieval town in canton Fribourg contains possibly the strangest museum in Switzerland. The Frog Museum in Estavayer-le-Lac features 108 stuffed frogs arranged in scenes from everyday life in the mid-19th century, thought to have been the taxidermy project of a former Swiss Guard. 
 
Geneva: the Jet d’Eau
 

Photo: Olivier Miche/Geneva Tourism
 
You can’t visit Geneva without checking out the Jet d’Eau waterspout. Built in 1886 to regulate the water pressure, it’s one of the world’s tallest fountains, reaching 140m at its highest spray. It spurts into Geneva harbour in front of Quai Gustave-Ador but you’ll get the best pics from the other side, near the Bains des Pâquis. 
 
Plan B: CERN
Science buffs won’t want to miss checking out the famous European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN) while in Geneva. If you want to do a guided tour, book early as the English-language ones are highly sought-after.
 
Glarus: Klontalersee 
 

Photo: Bob Ryskamp
 
Nice things come in small packages. Switzerland’s smallest canton offers the gem of the Klontalersee – a pretty mountain lake with amazing reflections. Walk around the shores, taking snaps, or take a boat tour. You can even swim here in summer, when the water temperature reaches around 20C.
 
READ ALSO: Ten stunning Swiss lakes to visit this summer
 
Graubünden: Swiss National Park
 

Photo: Caroline Bishop
 
In a country known for its natural beauty, it may surprise you to learn Switzerland only has one national park. But because it’s Switzerland, it’s a pretty spectacular one. Covering an area of 170 kilometres square in the wild and wonderful southeastern canton of Graubünden, this is a unique area of the Alps stocked full of flora and fauna. 
 
Plan B: Soglio
The traditional alpine hamlets of Graubünden are always winning ‘most picturesque village in the world’ awards, so stop in and visit one while you’re here: try tiny Soglio (pop: 167).
 
Jura: St Ursanne
 

Photo: Ivo Scholz/Swiss Tourism
 
On the other side of Switzerland, Jura offers up the gorgeous town of St Ursanne on the banks of the fast-flowing river Doubs. The town revolves around its handsome Collegiate Church and former monastery and still retains a peaceful, reflective feel. 
 
Plan B: Jurassic Jura
Those who want to put the Jurassic in Jura can explore the canton’s fantastic ‘Tracking the Giants’ dinosaur trail, where you’ll see fossil footprints and other relics of the area’s former prehistoric inhabitants.  
 
Lucerne: Chapel Bridge
 

Photo: Jan Geerk/Swiss Tourism
 
Lucerne (Luzern in German) is a must-see on any tourist’s list. The old town is stunningly situated on the banks of Lake Lucerne, over the waters of which stands the famous Kapellbrücke – a 14th-century covered wooden bridge featuring 17th century painted scenes of local history and the city’s patron saints. It was rebuilt in 1993 after a devastating fire which destroyed many of the original paintings.
 
Neuchâtel: Absinthe Museum
 

Photo: Caroline Bishop
 
The wormwood-infused "green fairy" drink beloved of Toulouse-Lautrec and co. in Paris during the Belle Époque was first concocted in Neuchâtel’s Val-de-Travers in the late 1700s.
 
Read also: What a trip - 10 great Swiss inventions
 
Nowadays you can walk or cycle a 35km Absinthe Trail linking distilleries, restaurants and shops selling the stuff, and visit the fascinating Maison de l’Absinthe (Absinthe Museum) in Motiers. But be warned, you may start seeing double if you imbibe too much on the way!   
 
Nidwalden: Stanserhorn’s open-air cable car
 

Photo: Christian Perret/Swiss Tourism
 
Switzerland has some excellent cable cars, funiculars and cog-wheel railways with almost-unfailingly jaw-dropping ascents and nerve-inducing views. However, Nidwalden’s Stanserhorn CabriO has a little extra claim to fame – it’s the world’s first open-top, double-decker cable car (not for the faint of heart).
 
Enjoy brilliant 360 degree views from the top deck as you travel up the Stanserhorn mountain, plus the added thrill of feeling the wind in your hair.
 
Obwalden: Pilatus
 

Photo: Andreas Gerth/Swiss Tourism
 
Another record-breaking mountain ride is located in Obwalden. The astounding feat of engineering that is the Pilatusbahn winds its way up the side of Mount Pilatus and is the world’s steepest cog railway. Once you’re at the 2,132m station of Pilatus Kulm, you’ll enjoy wonderful views over Lake Lucerne and beyond.
 
READ ALSO: 32 incredible world records held by Switzerland and the Swiss
 
Schaffhausen: Rheinfalls
 

Photo: Christof Sonderegger/Swiss Tourism
 
Getting sick of huge mountains and picturesque towns? In Schaffhausen the main attraction is the impressive Rheinfalls. Europe’s answer to Niagara, the sheer volume of Rhine River water pounding over these waterfalls is a sight to see – especially in spring and early summer as the mountain snow melts away.
 
Plan B: Stein Am Rhein
Just in case you were after another lovely town – Stein Am Rhein is a beautiful example, full of half-timbered, brightly painted medieval buildings. 
 
Schwyz: Einsiedeln Abbey
 

Photo: Christof Sonderegger/Swiss Tourism
 
The town of Einsiedeln in the canton of Schwyz is watched over by the large, baroque-style Einsiedeln Abbey and church.
 
This still-active Benedictine monastery was first established around 1,000 years ago and has been a popular resting spot on the 'Way of St James' pilgrimage route for much of that time. Lovely at any time of year, the Abbey is especially magical at Christmas when there’s a large market chock full of food, gifts and Glühwein (or mulled wine). 
 
Solothurn: Solothurn old town 
 

Photo: Claire Doble
 
Solothurn, something of a cultural hub with its literature and film festivals, is billed as Switzerland’s finest baroque town. The capital of the canton of the same name, the town centre is a beautifully maintained time capsule from the 17th century.
 
Take a tour to discover how Solothurn is centred around the mystical number 11, with 11 fountains, 11 abbeys and churches, and even a clock face with just 11 numbers on it. 
 
St. Gallen: Stiftsbibliothek Library 
 

Photo: Christof Schuerpf/Swiss Tourism
 
The entire St Gallen Abbey precinct is Unesco-listed, but the medieval jewel in the crown is the Abbey’s Stiftsbibliothek (library). This opulent wood-panelled space is one of the oldest libraries in the world still in operation. It contains a treasure trove of rare and ancient manuscripts including some of Charlemagne’s correspondence and priceless illuminated manuscripts dating from the early middle ages onward. 
 
Plan B: Mogelsberg treetop walk
This beautiful new walkway not far from the city of St Gallen rises up to 50 metres off the forest floor and allows people to experience the flora and fauna in a whole new way. Pram-friendly, it offers views over the Necker Valley and even as far off as the dramatic Churfirsten mountain range and the Appenzellerland region.
 
Read also: In pics - Switzerland's 11 stunning Unesco World Heritage sites
 
Thurgau: Sugar Mill tour
 
Sugar is big business in Switzerland and, given the amount of chocolate produced and consumed here, that probably won’t shock you. In the largely agricultural canton of Thurgau (it is famous for its apples and apple cider), you can get stuck into the nitty gritty of Swiss sugar production by taking a tour of one of the country’s main sugar mills in the cantonal capital city, Frauenfeld. 
 
Plan B: The Hüttwilersee 
This small tranquil lake is a hidden gem for hiking around or even diving into during the warmer months. 
 
Ticino: Bellinzona’s castles
 

Photo: Roland Gerth/Swiss Tourism
 
If you want sunshine, Switzerland's Italian-speaking canton of Ticino is a good bet. And a good place to start is the town of Bellinzona which is home to not one but three atmospheric ruined castles. These are Unesco-listed and offer a fine day’s exploration as well as some stunning views from the ancient ramparts. 
 
Plan B:  Lavertezzo bridge
The Lavertezzo bridge in Ticino’s stunning Verzasca Valley is a medieval, double-curved bridge that arcs over the pristine bottle-green water of the Verzasca river and is another postcard-perfect spot.
 
Uri: Rütli meadow 
 

Photo: Fabrice Coffrini/AFP
 
Uri is famous for not one but two Swiss 'origin stories'. It is where the arguably mythical character of William Tell lived and shot the arrow off his son’s head (there’s a bronze statue of him in Altdorf), and it’s also where you’ll find the Rütli meadow, where the oath of the Swiss Confederation was first sworn back in 1291 – at least according to the popular version.
 
Read also: Quiz - how well do you know these key dates in Swiss history?
 
A visit to Rütli is something akin to visiting the UK’s Runnymede or Independence Hall in the US. The spectacular boat ride across Lake Lucerne to the meadow is an experience in itself.
 
Valais: The Matterhorn
 

Photo: Toni Mohr/Swiss Tourism
 
It’s all about altitude in Valais. The canton is home to the stunning, instantly recognizable Matterhorn mountain, as well as around 45 other peaks that rise over 4,000 metres above sea level including Switzerland’s highest, Dufourspitze at 4,634m. 
 
Vaud: Vevey
 

 
The elegant town of Vevey is very much on the international travel radar in 2019 with both Lonely Planet and National Geographic putting on its 'must-see' lists for this year.
 
The reason is the upcoming Fête des Vignerons (Winegrowers' Festival), which runs from July 18th to August 11th.
This Unesco-recognised event is Switzerland's oldest and largest wine festival and – to make it even more special – it is held a maximum of five times every century.

Last staged in 1999, the Fête des Vignerons has its origins in the 17th century when the Wine Guild held a yearly pageant in Vevey, which is located at the foot of one of Switzerland's oldest wine-growing regions, the Lavaux.

 
Zug: Zug Town centre and lake
 

The Roman Signer sculpture, Kunsthaus Zug. Photo: Olivier Baer, Zurich
 
Zug has both new and old attractions. The Old Town of the canton capital (also named Zug) is very pleasant for a stroll – don’t miss the clock tower – and once you hit the shores of Lake Zug, you’ll spot the stylish, modern Roman Signer lake view sculpture, which you can enter for a duck’s eye view of Lake Zug.  
 
Zürich: Uetliberg 
 

The view from Zurich's Uetliberg. Photo: Christof Sonderegger/Swiss Tourism
 
Zurich’s ‘home mountain’ provides panoramic views across Switzerland’s largest city and its lake, all the way to the Alps in the distance on a clear day. 
 
Plan B: Swimming in Zurich
If the weather allows, go jump in the lake! There’s hundreds of spots to swim in the fresh, clear waters of Lake Zurich and its fast-flowing offshoot, the Limmat River. 


Our research is editorially independent but we may earn a commission for purchases made through our links.

Switzerland is a small country, but it’s a place with big mountains, big culture, and big opportunities for travelers. Here you can spend time in cosmopolitan cities to explore the museums and culinary scene, then head to the colorful villages to learn about life as a Swiss local and take in the beautiful scenery. These are our favorite things to see and do in Switzerland!

The majestic Matterhorn mountain
Credit: bigstock.com
The majestic Matterhorn mountain
Summit the Matterhorn Mountain, Zermatt
NEARBY HOTELS 
The Matterhorn is one of the highest mountains in Switzerland, but it really stands out for its unique shape and role in mountaineering history. Standing at 4,478 meters tall (14,692 feet), this highly photographed mountain draws in alpinists from all over the world to summit to the top. It’s located near Zermatt, one of Europe’s most beautiful mountain towns, which is very pedestrian-friendly and a year-round destination for skiers and hikers. The best and most scenic way to get here is by train, and once you arrive, all vehicles in the city are required to be battery-operated. It’s also fun to take a cable car ride in Zermatt to get to the other mountains for skiing, snowboarding, and hiking.

People sitting on the Bernina express train and admiring the scenic view on the Swiss alps
Credit: bigstock.com
People sitting on the Bernina express train and admiring the scenic view on the Swiss alps
Ride the Bernina Express Through the Swiss Alps
NEARBY HOTELS 
One of the most memorable things you’ll ever do in Switzerland, the Bernina Express takes you on a journey through the Swiss Alps. This train route will take you through alpine scenery, historical sites, and you’ll see amazing views around every turn. The route goes from the town of Chur in Switzerland to Tirano in Italy and crosses the canton of Graubünden on a ride that takes about four hours. Alternatively, you can take a route from Davos for a 15-minute ride or a ride from St. Moritz for about a two-hour ride. But the full route is definitely the best one to take if you have the time. The first section overlaps with a section of the Glacier Express Route, the second section offers views of the highest peaks in the region, and the third section offers views of the southern scenery along Lakes Lugano and Como via bus to Lugano.

Geneva Lake and Mont-Blanc bridge with flags Geneva city center
Credit: bigstock.com
Geneva Lake and Mont-Blanc bridge with flags Geneva city center
Take a Boat Ride on Lake Geneva
NEARBY HOTELS 
Geneva is an international city that’s known for its role in the United Nations and the International Red Cross. But the city itself is also full of interesting attractions, including a collection of lovely parks. One of the best ways to get to know Geneva is to take a boat ride out on Lake Geneva and experience it from the water. This is one of the largest lakes on the continent, and it offers amazing views of the surrounding cities and towns, as well as the Alps and Jura mountain ranges, which are great for skiing and hiking depending, on the season. It’s also fun to explore the Vaud wineries because there are many vineyards that surround Lake Geneva.

People standing on the observation deck in Interlaken in a beautiful summer day Switzerland 
Credit: bigstock.com
People standing on the observation deck in Interlaken in a beautiful summer day Switzerland
Discover Outdoor Adventure in Interlaken
NEARBY HOTELS 
Interlaken is known as the adventure sport capital of the world, and this resort area offers so many things to do for people who love getting active outdoors. Start your journey at the Bernese Oberland region for your adventures. This is also a popular resort area because of the spas and fresh mountain air that’s unique to this part of the world. Interlaken is a very popular place to go hang gliding, kayaking, paragliding, river rafting, jet boating, and hiking. There are many local guide companies here that will set you up with the gear you need to be safe and have an unforgettable time.

Unterbrucke bridge over Aare River and old houses in Bern Switzerland.
Credit: bigstock.com
Unterbrucke bridge over Aare River and old houses in Bern Switzerland.
Explore Old Town of Bern
NEARBY HOTELS 
The Old Town part of the city of Bern, which is a UNESCO World Heritage Site, is definitely a great place to visit when you plan a trip to Switzerland. Here you’ll find the Bern Minster, which is an iconic Gothic cathedral and beautiful town hall. While in Bern, you can also see the Zytglogge, which is a famous clock tower with moving puppets. This is also an ideal area for travelers who love to shop for souvenirs, gifts, and personal items to take back home. Other top things to do here include the weekly market and Bear Park, which celebrates the city’s animal symbol.

Beautiful nature with the water fall (Rhine Falls) Switzerland.
Credit: bigstock.com
Beautiful nature with the water fall (Rhine Falls) Switzerland.
See Rhine Falls
NEARBY HOTELS 
The largest plain waterfall in all of Europe is Rhine Falls, which is near Schaffhausen and in the northern part of the country. Here you can watch the Falls from a viewing deck and see the falls drop around 500 feet down. If you’re feeling particularly adventurous, you can even rent a canoe and head out on the water. You can even reach the castles of Wörth and Laufen by boat from this area. There are boat tours offered by local companies to get you closer to the Falls, and these tours typically  operate between April and October.

View from above of Lucerne city center and lake.
Credit: bigstock.com
View from above of Lucerne city center and lake.
Go Boating on Lake Lucerne
NEARBY HOTELS 
Another lake worth visiting during your time in Switzerland is Lake Lucerne. This region is in the German-speaking part of the country and is incredibly beautiful. The city of Lucerne is also known for its Chapel Bridge and Water Tower. Come here for picture-perfect postcard views and a lovely charm that will make you fall in love with Swiss culture. Consider taking a boat cruise on a historic paddle steamer or salon motor vessel to really experience this lake. It’s a perfect way to spend a mild summer’s day or evening with the lights of town making the water glisten with magic. You can also combine a boat ride with a walk along the Swiss Path to learn about the history of the country.

View of the Old Town (Altstadt) and the Limmat River 
Credit: bigstock.com
View of the Old Town (Altstadt) and the Limmat River
Walk Around Old Town (Altstadt), Zurich
NEARBY HOTELS 
Zurich is the largest city in Switzerland and is a favorite spot among art and culture enthusiasts. There are so many museums and art galleries here that it would be impossible to see them all in just one trip. One highly recommended thing to do in Zurich is to explore the Old Town area, known as Altstadt. This area is home to the Swiss National Museum, the Kunsthaus Zürich (Museum of Art), the Fraumünster Church (Minister of Our Lady), and Bahnhofstrasse (shopping avenue). It’s also interesting to admire the unique architecture of the buildings here and experience the city’s hip nightlife scene. It’s easy to get to and from Old Town via city tram.

From exploring the top of Europe to sailing around Lake Geneva, photographing Chillon Castle or passing by the spectacular Rhine Falls on your Grand Train Tour, you’ll soon realise why Switzerland is known to be one of the most beautiful countries in the world are there are endless fun activities. If you’re planning a trip there, be it the Alps or all the great lakes in Zurich and Lucerne, here are the 50 best things to do in Switzerland in summer.

Contents [show]

Things To Do in Switzerland in Summer
1. Book a hotel with a view
If you’re going to spend your hard earned cash on a once-in-a-lifetime trip to Switzerland, the you might as well stay in one of the most incredible hotels in the world. Hotel Villa Honegg has got a lot of attention recently (mainly due to viral Instagram images!) thanks to its spectacular infinity pool overlooking the Alps.

When it comes to a room with a view, it doesn’t get much better than this! If this is *a little* out of your budget, then below are some equally amazing and unique places to stay in Switzerland with a smaller price tag!



An alternative and much cheaper option is to stay in Chateau Guetsch, Lucerne for just €200 a night or check into a mountain pod.

amazing hotels in switzerland

2. Eat your weight in Swiss cheese
If you didn’t already know Switzerland is famous for its cheese – now you know! One of the most fun things to do on any trip to Switzerland is to see how many different types of delicious Swiss cheese you can eat. Be it for breakfast, lunch or dinner, while sitting in a fancy Fondue Restaurant, or at a picnic in the park you’ve put together for your self, nothing beats a meal of cheese.

We ate at the oldest restaurant in Lausanne and I can happily say I’ve never eaten that much cheese in one sitting in my life – it was heavenly! It should be noted that in Switzerland they don’t really call it “Swiss cheese” as they simply have a huge variety of delicious Alpine cheeses, made from cows milk that comes from the happiest cows in the world.



3. Do a chocolate-making workshop
 Wondering what to do in Switzerland on a cold or wet day? Yes even Switzerland in summer doesn’t have perfect weather! How about a chocolate-making workshop. While Lausanne seems like an obvious choice (milk chocolate was actually invented in the small village of Vevey near Lausanne by Swiss Man Daniel Peter in 1876) we actually did our workshop in beautiful Interlaken.
 
There’s a chocolate-making workshop and cafe there called The Funky Chocolate Club and Ian and I had an insanely fun morning melting, mixing and eating our own chocolatey creations here. it was interesting to learn where the cocoa beans come from, wha the perfect temperature is for making milk and dark chocolate and all the various methods to decorate your chocolate bar! All we ate that day was chocolate – and I know my Dad is still jealous of this fact.
 
Looking for adventure in Interlaken? Why not get the train to Grindelwald and hike to Lake Bachalpsee!
 
chocolate-making-workshop
img_1234img_1227img_1206
4. Stay in the world’s prettiest hostels
Whether you are on a shoestring budget or not, staying in hostels is weirdly one of the top things to do in Switzerland. They are unlike any other backpackers hostels I’ve encountered around the world – and many are even prettier and better-located than their neighbouring hotels. In Interlaken we stayed at the very famous , which is the oldest private hostel in Switzerland and has more extra facilities than you can shake a stick (of chocolate) at.

There’s a restaurant, a night club, a massive terrace and garden, a room full of hammocks and a play area with foosball and pool tables. We stayed in a private room that was more spacious than some of the hotels we’ve stayed at and the decor was certainly unique!

While we didn’t stay in Lauterbrunnen the hostel we saw there was also one of the prettiest hostels in the world and might be worth checking out for a night or two if you plan to do some hiking. Also, this is the starting point for the train to Jungfraujoch, the highest train station in Europe!

READ: Best Hostels in Switzerland

balmers-hostel-interlaken

image-11pretty-flowershammock-room
5. Go wine tasting in Lugano
While Switzerland may not be as famous as its neighbouring countries for wine (hello France and Italy!) the wines that we tasted were pretty amazing and Switzerland in summer is drop dead gorgeous. There are even some pretty famous wine-making districts around the country from the UNESCO World Heritage Vineyards in Vevey to the warm, hills around Lugano in the Italian-speaking part of Switzerland. Ian and I spent a few hours at a very small family run vineyard in Lugano called La Fattoria Moncucchetto.

It was actually really nice to look around a very small vineyard (the produce 35,000 bottles a year and don’t export anything) as well as learning how their various varieties of wine are made. We tasted a few glasses of their 2014 Refolo Brut and both agreed we wouldn’t mind purchasing a bottle on ten! ;-) The bubbles went straight to my head but in a good way! Be sure to visit if passing through Lugano – the views are also incredible from their terrace.

I’ve listed Lugano as one of the top places to in Switzerland. Want to see the the other top 10 beautiful towns and villages? Read this post about “Where to go in Switzerland.”

wine-tasting-lugano

 

img_1576img_1590img_1598
6. Discover Switzerland’s oldest town
The city of Chur, located in the Swiss canton of Graubünden, is officially the oldest town in Switzerland dating back over 5,000 years and visiting is one of the most unique things to do in Switzerland. The towns official language is German but the main language spoken here is the Alemannia Swiss German dialect. The old part of the town is very picturesque and 100% car free making a visit here even more enjoyable. 

 
Chur #chur #graubünden #switzerland

A photo posted by Simona Guarino (@siimonaguarino) on Sep 11, 2016 at 12:47pm PDT

7. Cruise down the River Rhine
One of my favourite things to do in Switzerland was a morning spent cruising down the famous River Rhine. We hopped on board in the town of Schaffhaussen in Switzerland and watching in awe as the boat manoeuvred its way down the river with Switzerland to one side and Germany to the other. Was sort of like being in two countries at once.

We passed some stunning little villages, camp sites and absolutely massive mansions on either side of the river and it was by far one of the most relaxing mornings we had.

As most of the boats rides in Switzerland are included in your Swiss Travel Pass, we just hopped off the train and onto the boat with our giant backpacks and took a sort of two-hour detour down the river  then re-joined the train further down the route.

img_0035

img_0028img_0035img_0041
8. Experience three cultures in one
You may laugh at me, but until I actually travelled around Switzerland I was not aware that there are three separate languages spoken. Four if your can Romansh, a language only spoken in the Graubünden area to the West of the country.

Three languages means three separate cultures and three very different varieties of food. It’s quite fun travelling from the French-speaking area around Lausanne – where you’ll find delicious baked goods, crepes and other delightful delicacies from France to the German-speaking area where you will suddenly see street signs in German and advertisements for Bratwursts!

The moment we got off the train in Lugano it actually felt life we had already crossed over into Italy – expect the prices of course!



9. Descend a mountain in a cable car
Whether you decide to take the cable car up the mountain or down, riding in a cable car is definitely one of the most fun things to do in Switzerland!

In the winter they’re obviously used by the masses to get to the top of the mountains before skiing or snowboarding back down, while in summer there a little quieter and can be used to get to the top of various peaks to admire the spectacular view from the top. As we had a 8-day Swiss Rail Pass, we were allowed to take some cable car rides for free such as the one linking Mount Rigi near Lucerne to Weggis at the lakeshore. 

Switzerland is also home to the world’s first revolving cable car – while we didn’t get to experience this personally I’ve heard it’s an incredible experience. Cable car rides up the mountains is definitely one of the most fun things to do in Switzerland!



10. Take an old cog railway up Mount Rigi
One of the best day trips on our 8-day Grand Train Tour was a morning ascending Mount Rigi in an old cog railway. the incline was seriously steep and the train went at a snail’s pace, but this meant all the passengers could easily hang our the windows and take some of the most stunning panorama shots of the surrounding lakes and mountains.

One photo I took was so spectacular that most of my friends thought it was taken with a drone! Once at the top there is a cafe and restaurant and some great photo opportunities looking back down to the three lakes that surround Mount Rigi.

The walk back down to the cable car station is extremely easy, and you might even come across a paraglider flying off the mount as you walk by! Going up Mount Rigi was one of the best things to do in Switzerland – especially if you’re after some spectacular photos!

rigi-train11. Photograph the world’s happiest cows
Did you know Switzerland is famous for having the “happiest cows in the world”? Apparently, that’s why Swiss chocolate is so famous – it’s all about the rich and creamy milk! We saw these happy cows everywhere we went, roaming freely through fields, hills and with their cute bells hanging around their necks. We never got too close, but we did have fun trying to get some picture-perfect shots of these famous milk-makers!



swiss cows

12. Go skydiving in Interlaken
Forget about Queenstown in New Zealand or Victoria Falls in Southern Africa, I can say with confidence that Interlaken is the new adrenaline-junkie capital of the world.

Whatever sort of crazy activity you can think of, be it skydiving, bungee jumping, paragliding, mountain biking, off-roading, quad biking and loads of others that i can’t begin to explain – they have it. It is also one of the most spectacular spots on earth to go skydiving – surrounded by the dramatic peaks of the Alps. Check out Skydiving Interkalen for info on prices! 

Skydiving in Interlaken has to be one the most fun things to do in Switzerland!

 
Who faced it better? #spam 💨 p.s. cheers brothers for funding the adrenaline kick @jeremycator @freddiecator A photo posted by Bel (@annabelcator) on Jul 7, 2016 at 1:55am PDT

13. Take a steamboat around Lake Leman
One of the things I love about Switzerland is how they manage to combine ancient traditions with modernity. Its home to some of the most complicated banking and technology systems, but still maintains traditional steamboats and old cog railways.

We had the pleasure of taking two separate steamboat rides while in Switzerland but our favourite was a 100-year-old cruise around Lake Leman (otherwise known as Lake Geneva) taking in beautiful lakeside towns and villages such as Montreaux, Vevey and Port Valais. This is one of the best things to do in Switzerland in September – when most tourists have already left!

steamboat-lausanne

img_1037img_0999img_1030
 

14. Visit a UNESCO Vineyard at Vevey
The vineyards at Vevay are an unforgettable site that need to be seen to be believed. Whether you rock up as part of a cruise around Lake Leman or stop off there on the train from Lausanne to Montreaux, these stepped vineyards are absolutely stunning.
 
Dating back over 1,000 years, when the Italians brought the first grapes to Switzerland, a half day spent here is a half day well spent! Two famous people also hail from here: Comedy genius Charlie Chaplin and the founder of milk chocolate Daniel Peter!
VEVEY-LAVAUX
15. Explore old railway bridges
Depending on how much time you have in Switzerland, one fun thing to do is to spend a day exploring old railway bridges. We did this while passing through St Gallen, where the tallest railway bridge in Switzerland is located.

There are actually three bridges next to each other – one for cars and two for trains. Whether you walk over them or under them, they are a sight to behold and a great place to meet some locals or even take a dip in one of Switzerland’s many perfectly-clean rivers.

bridges in switzerland



16. Get soaked by a waterfall
This might happen by accident but it will most definitely happen! One thing Switzerland has a lot of is powerful waterfalls. we actually came across a few by accident and the one that we paid to get into was one of the most incredible waterfalls I’ve ever had the opportunity to visit. if you take the train to Lauterbrunnen and take the super-easy 1 hour hike to Trummelbach, you will actually pass about two or three other waterfalls along the way.

If you have a few more hours (or even days) to kill, you can check out all 72 waterfalls to be found in this mountainous region of the country! Trummelbach, the most famous waterfall, has been formed by the melting snow breaking through cracks in the rocks and gushing down into the valley. Because it’s so cold and so clear, the colour of the water is this unusual greyish white colour which can be viewed up close at the bottom of the falls.

To see the falls up close, they have carved steps and platforms into the rock face so visitors can view the waterfall in all its glory from varying dizzying heights.

waterfall in switzerland



img_1186img_1193img_1194
17. Discover picturesque villages
While Switzerland is famous for a few of its large and well-known cities, the real beauty is to be found in all the small and picturesque villages you pass along the way. It’s best not to try fit too much into your daily itinerary so you have time to hop off the train as you please to have a coffee in a cute little village, take a walk around and unknown lake or simply to take pictures which is what I did.

At one stage I hopped off the train in a town called Spiez with all my bags and left Ian ride on to Zurich by himself as I was so keen to take some drone shots (which you can see below!). The same goes for boat rides – give yourself enough time to jump off at some the more picturesque towns and villages you see along the way.

pretty-town



pretty-flowersimg_1079img_1107
18. Stroll through Stein Am Rhein
A town I had never heard of until a local took us there following a boat ride down the River Rhine, Stein Am Rhein is a medieval town in the German-speaking part of Switzerland with perfectly preserved ancient centre. No amount of photos would be enough in this storybook town – I kept feeling as if I had walked into a fairytale such a Shrek as not one building looked like any i had ever seen before. Dating back hundreds of years, the front of most buildings were perfectly preserved with ancient paintings in beautiful colours. Has to be seen to be believed!

image-10

stein-am-rhein

 

19. See Europe’s most powerful waterfall
If you didn’t get your fill of amazing waterfalls in The Alps, then a visit to Rhine Falls just 40 minutes outside of Zurich by train is  must.

Our train passed right by and I honestly nearly jumped out the window of the train i was in such awe at what I was seeing. I kicked myself for not doing my research and knowing that it existed so I would have known to get off the train!! Don’t make the same mistake as me – plan your journey and be sure to make s all photo stop here!

 
A photo posted by joerg.fotoblog (@joerg.fotoblog) on Sep 11, 2016 at 12:39pm PDT

20. Take in a Zurich sunrise
This wasn’t planned (we just happened to need to get up very early when leaving Zurich) but I highly recommend you set your alarm clock and explore this beautiful city as the sun rises. It’s so quiet and peaceful in the morning, the light is at its best for photographs and the river is flat calm allowing for some stunning reflection shots. 

sunrise-in-zurich

21. Visit the Olympic Museum
While there are lots of fantastic museums in Switzerland, The Olympic Museum in Lausanne is by far the best by a long shot. Located in the Olympic City, the home of the founder of the modern-day olympics and the International Olympic Committee, visiting this museum is both fascinating and exciting.

Perfect for all ages, this interactive museum takes you through the history of the olympics, all about its founder and his life in Lausanne as well as a chance to see signed memorabilia from many of the past Olympic Games. You can take a photo of yourself holding the Olympic Torch from Rio and you can even try your hand at some Olympic Sports from athletics to shooting as well as playing games to test your balance.

Tom Cafe, the restaurant on the top floor, has a beautiful terrace with panoramic views of Lake Geneva and delicious buffet to treat yourself to. My travel buddy Ian has written a separate post all about why he loved The Olympic Museum which you should definitely check out!

olympic-museumimg_0976

img_0982thumb_img_0630_1024thumb_img_0620_1024
thumb_img_0611_1024thumb_img_0616_1024thumb_img_0633_1024
22. Tour Switzerland by train
I honestly think the ONLY way to visit Switzerland is by train. There’s this thing called the “Grand Train Tour of Switzerland” which we did. You can either buy a 4 day or an 8 day pass and it essentially lets you travel anywhere in Switzerland by boat, bus or train and even some cable cars. If not covered by the pass, there’s almost always a 25% or 50% discount.

While you might need to make a reservation for some of the more popular trains in the summer, or the panoramic trains through the Alps, we didn’t need to reserve seats anywhere and found travelling from city to city by train super easy for extremely enjoyable.

The ticket also gets your first class so you ride in style! Here’s another great post with more information about travelling Europe by train. Train travel in Switzerland really the only way to go!

train-travel-switzerland

mountains

23. Cruise around Lake Lucerne
As I’m sure you’ve guessed already – Switzerland is essentially full of mountains, lakes and rivers. around every corner there is a mountain to be climbed and a lake to be explored by boat.

We loved taking an old steamer across Lake Lucerne – the views were spectacular and you can hop on and off as your please visiting some of the pretty lakeside towns that I previously talked about. A great day trip from Lucerne is to check out Mount Titlis – where you can actually plan in the snow even during the summer! 



lucerne-titlis-2511666_1920lucerne-2537433_1920lucerne-3540529_1920
 

24. Play in the snow at Jungfraujoch
Jungfraujoch – known as the Top of Europe – is the highest railway station in Europe. Located  3,454 metres above sea level, this has snow year round so even if you visit in the summer you can still do a variety of fun winter sports. It can be rather pricey to get to the top – be it by train or cable car – but the people we met who made it up there said it was definitely worth it for the view and the unique “snow in summer” experience.

Just be sure to check the weather before you go as there’s no point going up on a very cloudy day! Learn more about travelling to Jungfraujoch here.

snow fun jungfraujoch



25. Cycle around Zurich
Zurich is a very easy city to get around and despite being known as the banking capital of the world, it is in fact a very beautiful old city with a lot to see and do. Full of excellent museums and attractions, renting a bike and exploring this city on two wheels is definitely the best way to see all of has to offer. Be sure to check out the giant clock face, Europe’s largest clock face at St Peter’s Church.



26. Old railway to Lauterbrunnen
Taking a traditional train from Interlaken to Lauterbrunnen, or even further up into the mountains if your budget allows it, is one of the most unique things to do in Switzerland. The view is beautiful along the way as the train slowly winds its way up the valley and on arrival in Lauterbrunnen you will feel like you’ve arrived in a fairytale town. Whether you visit in Winter or Summer, a walk around this magical village will put a smile on your face. Grab a hot chocolate at one of the cute cafes or book into one of the most picturesque hostels in the world.





27. Explore lakeside town of Spietz
There are  many amazing lakeside towns in Switzerland to check out! One cute lakeside town only a short train ride from Interlaken, and a perfect stop if you are travelling on to Zurich. Spend a day walking around this town and be sure to check out Spietz Castle, the marina and the church that sits by the lake.

You can also take a boat trip out around the lake if you have time and enjoy the spectacular backdrop of the mountains behind you.





28. Rent a paddle boat in Lausanne
Visiting Lausanne is a little like travelling back in time to the summer resorts of the past. Watch as families sit by the lake enjoying the sunshine or rent a paddle boat and paddle along the shore of beautiful Lake Leman. You can enjoy great views of the Olympic Museum as well as an alternative view of some of the best hotels in the world which live the side of the lake overlooking the clear waters.

paddle-boat-lausanne

29. Watch the paragliders in Interlaken
If paragliding isn’t in your budget it can also be fun to go the park in Interlaken to watch as hundreds and hundreds of them descend on the town, doing flips and tricks, landing mere meters from your comfortable park bench. It’s a real sight to behold and will ensure your photo of Interlaken have a pretty energetic background!

paraglider

30. Stay in an old jailhouse
There’s a hotel in Lucerne that use to be the city jail. you can now pay to get the full “jail experience” complete with small beds in cell-like rooms, bars on the windows and dim lighting.

A unique Swiss experience for sure! The prison dates back to 1862 – so you might imagine a few visitors while you sleep!

 
Home for the night. Jailhotel#switzerland #luzerne #jailhotelluzern‼️ #yolo

A photo posted by El Rafa (@el_rafas_world) on Sep 11, 2016 at 3:57am PDT

 

31. Eat a great, big Swiss steak
Like I mentioned earlier, Switzerland is pretty famous for having the happiest cows in the world and some of the world’s tastiest cheese. It’s no surprise that it is also a meat-lovers heaven an is home to the tastiest cuts of steak as well as a huge variety of mouth-watering dried meats.

We treated ourselves to a steak dinner while in Lausanne and it was way up there with one of the best-cooked steaks I’ve ever eaten. Enjoy it with some good Swiss red wine and you’ll be in foodie heaven!

32. Stay in the leading hotels of the world
Switzerland must have more luxury hotels per capita than anywhere else in the world. Some aren’t even widely marketed – they’re just known by those in the know.

Many are famous for having hosted some of the world’s biggest celebrities and one such hotel in Lausanne was the home Coco Chanel for two years and even has a suite in the hotel named after her. Be in castles up in the mountains or 5-star lakeside retreats, many dating back over 100 years, you are sure to find a hotel you’ll never forget while in Switzerland.

We spent two nights in the Carlton Lausanne and I had the most incredible balcony overlooking the street with the lake in the near distance. While the hotel had kept much of its old-world charm (there were even a hotel posters in the breakfast room), it didn’t feel old and the rooms were beautifully decorated.

hotel-carlton

33. Go hiking
There are so many amazing hiking opportunities in Switzerland. You could probably go hiking every day of your holiday and never get bored as the routes are all equally different and equally enchanting.

Climb up to snow-capped peaks or take it easy walking around gently sloping paths surrounding Switzerland’s endless lakes. Take a cable car up and walk back down or if you’re feeling energetic walk up and take an old railway back down.

hiker

mountains-2img_1153mountains
34. Take a funicular to Harder Kulm
If you have a few days in Interlaken, be sure to take the old funicular up to Harder Kulm. The large windows and glass roof will allow you spectacular views as you rise up to one the surrounding mountain peaks located 1,322 metres above sea level.

There’s a Chinese restaurant at the top that looks like a mixture between a castle and a temple where you can enjoy the view with a sundowner!  

35. Visit the James Bond restaurant
The famous James Bond restaurant in Switzerland is located at the top of Schilthorn, a 2970 meter high mountain peak in the middle of the country. The restaurant at the top, called Piz Gloria, is where the 1969 James Bond movie On Her Majesty’s Secret Service was set.

The restaurant actually revolves and affords visitors panoramic views of the surrounding mountains. You will need to take a series of trains and cable cars to get here so the reward of such an incredible view is a welcome treat on arrival.

james-bond-restaurant

36. Explore Switzerland’s stunning castles
Every village, every town, every lake, every river and everywhere else in between seems to have its own stunning castle in Switzerland. I was blown away by the first one I saw (probably as it’s one of the most famous – Chilean Castle on the shores of Lake Geneva) but that it almost got to a stage when I stopped noticing them as there were so many to take pictures of.

If you take a 2 hour train journey through the Swiss countryside you won’t be able to count the amount of castles you see on both hands. In fact, there is said to be a grand total of 62 castles in Switzerland so see how many you can tick off!castle-switzerland

 
My first Swiss castle selfie! There shall be more…don’t you worry! Do any of you hate selfies? I guess I might take too many haha🙄 #mylausanne #swiss   A photo posted by Janet Newenham (@janetnewenham) on Aug 28, 2016 at 10:17am PDT

37.  Listen to Jazz in Montreux
The small town of Montreux on the shore of Lake Geneva is very much a traditional lakeside resort town but with a small twist. It’s most famous for its annual Montreux Jazz Festival held each July, and dating back over 50 years.

It’s the second largest annual jazz festival in the world, second only to Canada’s famous Montreal Jazz Fest, attracting artists and festival-goers from around the world. While primarily focusing on Jazz music, you can listen to all types of music genres imaginable. The festival lasts two full weeks and attracts almost a quarter of a million people each year.

montreux

img_1046

Where To Stay in Montreux 
Fairmont Le Montreux Palace – from €305 a night

Hotel Helvetie – from €117 a night

Eurotel Montreux – from €167 a night

38. Watch the sunset over Lake Lucerne
While Switzerland is full of beautiful places to watch the sunset, I particularly loved watching the sunset in beautiful Lucerne. The city has a very unique layout, stretching down each side of the lake, which makes viewing the sunset all the more pleasurable.

You can also take sunset cruises out on to the water and look back on the city as the sun sets behind it. An unforgettable experience. There’s even a bar called ‘Sunset Bar’ as part of the Hotel Seeburg where you are guaranteed the best sunset pics!
39. Drink Swiss wine at Mojito in Lugano
While in Lugano we discovered this very cute lakeside bar called Mojito. Unlike every other bar we frequented on our travels so far, this bar is run by the local community and all profits made of directly back into the running of the bar and funding local festivals and events that take place next to Lake Lugano.

Prices were very reasonable and they served up some of the mojitos this side of the world. Highly recommend visiting and supporting this social enterprise.

lugano-mojito

40. Take the Glacier Express
No visit to Switzerland would be complete without riding the famous Glacier Express through the mountains, right up to some of the most spectacularly beautiful spots on all of Europe.

Riding this train is like being transported into a Disney movie – complete with huge panoramic, glass windows to ensure you don’t miss a single mountain whizzing by. Taking about seven hours, it goes all the way across the Alps from Zermatt to Davos or St. Moritz. On a single day trip, you will pass by  deep gorges, delightful valleys, 91 tunnels and over 291 impressive bridges!

glacier-express

41. Eat some cobblestone chocolate
If you are spending some time in the Olympic City be sure to take yourself on a self-guided tour up and down the cobblestone streets until you come across the cities most famous chocolate shop.

Here the master chocolatier at Paves Tony makes small cobblestone-shaped chocolatey with a very high alcohol content that are sure to melt in you mouth and have your returning time and time again for more tasty delights. 

paves_de_la_rue_de_bourg

42. Explore 3 countries in 1 in Basel
Basel is one of the most unusual cities in the world which makes a visit here one of the best things to do in Switzerland. It’s unique location on the border of three countries means that parts of the city are in France, another part is in Switzerland and a third part is in Germany!

Besides its unique location, it was one of the prettiest cities in the country with plenty to keep you occupied for a few days. Basel is also an art lovers paradise – as Jet-Settera found out recently. If visiting during Winter be sure to check out the famous Basel Winter Carnival – the biggest of its kind in Switzerland.

basel-switzerland

43. Go window shopping in Geneva
Oh Geneva. If you have to ask for the price tag, then you probably can’t afford it! this city is FULL of glamorous shop fronts, women clad in designer clothes from head to toe and people driving cars that cost more than an average house.

It’s quite the experience to soak it all in for a day or two and look on at a lifestyle you will probably never have! ;-)

44. Walk around Kapellbrücke in Lucerne
The Kapellbrücke, or Chapel Bridge, in Lucerne is one of the biggest defining features of the city and a must-visit attraction. Slightly creepy at night, and equally atmospheric, walking around this ancient bridge (the oldest covered bridge in Europe) is an experience you won’t be forgetting.

Be sure to check out the intricate interior paintings that date back to the 17th century and 43 meter tall water tower at the end of the bridge.

luzern_kapellbruecke

45. View the Matterhorn from Zermatt
One of Europe’s highest mountain peaks, at 4,478 metres, this pyramidal peak in the Alps is one of the most recognisable peaks in the world.

If you travel to Zermatt by train, you can go up a perfect viewing platform and view this mighty peak from a sad distance. This is also a haven for experiences climbers who can reach 38 separate four thousand-metre peaks from Zermatt. Here are 10 more interesting facts about the Matterhorn that you may not have been privy to!

matterhorn_from_domhutte_-_2

46. Swim in a Swiss river or lake
I’m not going to lie. The rivers and lakes in Switzerland are not exactly the warmest. In fact, if you are brave enough to take a dip in a river that has been formed from melting snow, be prepared for an icy surprise. While some are warmer than others, they have one thing in common – they contain some of the clearest and cleanest water in Europe and a real delight to swim in. Be brave, make the jump!

river-switzerland

47. Mingle with the rich in St Moritz
It is said that Winter Tourism was actually invented in St Moritz over 150 years ago after a local hotel owner and its gets made a bet with each other.

Over the years, St Moritz has grown into one of the most well-known and prestigious ski resorts in the world – popular with the rich and famous from all four corners of the world. A hub for winter sports enthusiasts – 70% of St Moritz visitors come during the Winter months. Be sure to have a nice bit of savings if you plan of travelling here as winter sports, food, accommodation and everything in between don’t come cheap! Looking for some alternative ski resorts? Read all about where locals would recommend!

st-moritz

48. Eat your way around Gruyères
For the foodies amoung, you (or anyone that simply enjoys some good cheese!) Gruyere should be added to your Swiss bucket list. Famous for the large concentration of cheese factories as well as some of Switzerland’s most famous meat products, Gruyeres is also a picture-perfect medieval town with a lot of history.

Visit the Maison Cailler and Gruyères Chocolate factories, discover how to make traditional cheese at La Maion du Gruyere or learn to make traditional, organic bread in the Adde bread oven. There are literally endless things to do in this tiny place.

gruyeres-cheese

49. Have a night out in Le Flon in Lausanne
Looking for the best nightlife in Switzerland? It has to be Le Flon district in Lausanne. While many people would argue it’s all about Geneva – many locals from Geneva actually travel to Lausanne for the nightlife.

This old warehouse district, which is full of retro clubs and new bars which have kept the old warehouse-style architecture and vibe transform this part of the city into an eclectic nightlife area. In the summer lots of live music and festivals take place here and at the weekends the district really comes alive. Be sure to check out the iconic Mad nightclub….you’ll see why when you get there.

lausanne places to visit in switzerland

50. Visit picturesque Albogasio
While this picturesque village is technically on Italian territory, it can be accessed on a one hour cruise from Lugano, the southern most city in Switzerland. We had to actually google the name when we arrived back to our hostel as we were pretty mesmerised by this tiny but perfectly formed stepped village on the shore of Lake Lugano. A photographers dream – and a village that conjures up images of many of the more famous villages around Southern and Northern Italy.

things to do in switzerland

Editors note: Thank you SO much to Tourism Lausanne for hosting us in Lausanne for two days, to the people at Swiss Travel Pass for kindly sponsoring two 8-day passes and to both the Youth Hostel in Lugano and the Balmer’s Hostel in Interlaken for so kindly hosting us. As always, all opinions are my own and I would highly recommend everyone to visit Switzerland – especially during the summer!